The details of this are exceedingly complicated, and no where near fully understood (I'm actually working this summer in a research institution that's main purpose is basically to figure out exactly how cancer cells work), but I can try to explain what I know about the basic idea of it.... . In a multicellular organism, you've got to have just the right amount of each type of tissue to make an organ that's the right size and shape to do what it's supposed to and fit where it's supposed to go.  For that to happen, you need just the right amount of cells.  So cells in multicellular organisms need ways to know when to grow and when to just chill out and keep doing what they do as liver cells, brain cells, etc.. . Normally, cells know when to grow based in large part on signals from other cells.  Cells send out chemical signals that tell other cells how many cells there are, and these signals set of a series of biochemical pathways that ultimately tell other cells that there are enough of that type of tissue, and they shouldn't grow anymore (or that there aren't enough and they should grow).  In cancer cells, there are typically mutations that cause them to ignore the stop-growing signals from surrounding cells and from the endocrine system (i.e. hormones).. . Another aspect of cells in multicellular organisms is that they tend to stay put.  You don't want your liver cells floating over to your heart, or growing on the outside of your skin.  So there are proteins outside the cells that hold them in place by binding to the outside surface of the cells in various ways.  In metastatic (i.e. spreading) cancers, there are mutations in the genes that encode proteins involved in holding the cell in place, allowing it to float away and take up residence elsewhere.. . Another interesting feature of cancer cells is that they tend to un-differenciate.  That is, cancer cells that started out as, say, skin cells won't really look like skin cells anymore.  Instead they tend to be more or less generic blobs and have lost the functionality of the original differentiated cell.  While the cells do have some different features depending on what type of tissue they originally came from, they look more like each other than like the original tissue.. . So basically, cancer cells are cells that aren't normal, functional cells, and just ignore all the other cells telling them to stop growing and grow out of control, wherever they feel like growing.. . On an organismal level, cancer cells start to be problematic when they form tumors, which are just blobs of cancer cells, and take up space and nutrients intended for healthy, functional cells.  Although the cancer cells generally don't secrete anything toxic or anything like that, they have a tendancy to steal blood from healthy cells, and to put physical pressure on surrounding tissue, basically killing off portions of healthy tissue.  And because cancer cells multiply far more rapidly than normal cells, they eventually take over, which is clearly not a good thing.