Although you don't critisize those of other religions, a lot of the so-called "Christians" enjoy it. They like to say we're all going to hell, belittle the gods or lack of gods in other religions, and try to forcefully shove their religion down our throats. There's only so long you can take that until you develop some bitterness towards those people.. . I however, don't hate the ones that actually recognize that I have a right to believe in what I want and they shouldn't in a "matter of fact" way tell me that what I believe is wrong and i'm going to suffer for eternity in hell for it.. . Honestly, i'm generally a nice person. I volunteer, i'd give someone the shirt off of my back if they needed it, I try to understand where other people are coming from and I respect their right to believe what they choose, I try to help people as much as I can. In no way am I perfect and I do make mistakes, but everyone does that. Then people find out that i'm agnostic and they give me a bad look, tell me i'm going to hell, denounce my beliefs, and are entirely relentless about it.. . It's ridiculous.. . I don't go up to them then tell them that their god sucks, they're wrong, they're brainwashed, blah blah blah. That's just rude and is incredibly intolerable and close-minded.. . So, the point is... there are some secular people who take it too far and are just full of hate towards Christians and other religions, but there are nuts people in every religion. A lot of people who are hostile towards the Christian population have just had numerous bad experiences with them and as a result, developed a bitterness towards the members of that specific religion. . . It should stop on both sides. People should all learn that everyone is entitled to believe what they want. It was their personal choice and it's incredibly rude and intolerable to judge them like that and tell them all of those horrible things just because they don't believe what you do. On the other side, people should learn that not all people of a group are the same and you shouldn't condemn everyone for something a small portion of them did.. . FURTHERMORE: It is people like dizynman and bstil that answered this question that just add to the hatred and give Christians a bad rap. Frankly, people like them just piss me off.