Forensic conclusions are made, not by scientific-method "operation science", but by the reasoning of "origin science" which is based on theoretical deduction, indirect proofs, irreproducible singularities (i.e., one-time-only happenings), evidence from the unobserved past, and historical or hypothetical events beyond a reasonable doubt. In this respect, the study of origins (creation vs. evolution) and the determination of DNA lineages are amazingly similar in that the interpretation of the evidence is not open to empirical disproof.. . . Please also keep in mind that, according to a biblical worldview, it is not God that classifies man as a primate along with apes and monkeys. It is the evolutionary mindset that considers man to be a member of the mammalian order that also includes prosimians, tarsioids, and anthropoids. Nevertheless, it is commonly asserted now that man and the chimpanzee must be very closely related because they are said to share 96%-98.7% of their functional DNA which, in reality, is only the 1.3%-4% of the genome consisting of the genes that are actually known to be responsible for the coding of proteins. Be aware that the human haploid genome consists of some 3 billion nucleotide pairs of DNA! The fact that approximately 98% of the 1.3-to-4% of human DNA that is known corresponds to chimpanzee DNA really proves very little. Even a cloud, a watermelon, and a jellyfish are 98% similar since they are all 98% water!! It really is the 2% variation that truly makes all the difference!. . The infinitely more significant fact that each specific kind of organism has its own individually-unique DNA molecular structure, not 100% identical to any other kind of organism, is academically dismissed when considering comparative anatomy, structural homologies, or molecular similarities. Indeed, the very design of DNA is orchestrated to prevent one genetic blueprint from becoming a clone of a different kind of hereditary program. It is hard to imagine a more solid evidence for special creation--and against a common ancestor--than the mere existence and function of DNA!. . To the objective mind, similarities should indicate a common designer at least as much as they indicate a common ancestor. It would be logical that an Intelligent Designer would use the same efficient plan to code for proteins in all living organisms genetically engineered by Him. In fact, based on their comparable structure, one would predict blueprint similarity between humans and apes indicative of "common design in advance", not "common dice and chance".. . . The original 1987 study used mitochondrial tracer DNA (mtDNA), the chromosomes of which are passed unchanged from mother only to offspring, unlike nuclear DNA, which comes from both parents. The study involved 136 human women with widely-varying geographical and ethnic diversity. The analysis was said to point back to a single ancestral mtDNA molecule from a human female living in sub-Saharan Africa about 200,000 years ago. However, it has now been determined that both the entering order of data input and the interpreting of data output were prejudiced toward an African origin for "mitochondrial Eve" based on evolutionary presuppositions.. . . In conclusion, allow me to quote a paragraph from Marvin L. Lubenow's excellent book [a CEM resource] entitled, 'Bones of Contention: A Creationist Assessment of Human Fossils' (1992, pp.71-72):