I think you are asking; why do your christian colleagues put so  much emphaise and time into converting, or at least inviting, others to join their faith.. . I believe its rooted in our history.  As a catholic we do not do as much overt calling to faith.  We go to Mass on Sunday and know our neighbours see us, they can ask if they are interested.  We have parish schools and many people are attracted to  those but we do not often do missions in the park to get new converts.  . The Reformation (1500s) broke the Church apart.  The Prodesteants Churchs continued to splinter so now a Baptist community for example, in one town may have no affiliation to the one in the next.  Each of the members can interperate the Bible for themselves, there is no need to have aggreement.  Protestants, correct me if I am wrong.. . This history I think leads to a sense of insecurity: where a good prostant wonders; am I the only one who thinks this about this passage?  So there is a need to ask others; What do you think about John 6:11 or whatever?  The Bible alone is the authority; and its the words on the page rather than any wealth of schoarly study or pastoral reflection on the text, that gets debated.  You can see how this could lead to communities going their own way and how a good precher could win a crowd while he had the energy and resources to answer ther needs of the communty.  Once his congragation went over 3000 or so, his individual effort would be spent.. The need to resource each neighbourhood church leads to campagine to win their hearts souls and financial support.  So you end up with christians everywhere trying to attact new recruits for a variety of reason and basic needs.. . Other religions build up community resources and welfare agencies, school, hospitals, temples.  Comparitively less time is spent on evangelisation.  Teams of people form teaching some specialising in establishing policy.  This means there is less time arguing about what we believe.. . I not saying one is better than the other just pointing out how our history affects our approach and activities and that inturn affect the people who might join us.  So there is my answer I hope I have been fair.