It is rather sad, if inevitable, to see so many answers with U.S.A. I suppose in both action and essence we have become to much like an empire.  However if we look at a dictionary definition of empire: . . A political unit having an extensive territory or comprising a number of territories or nations and ruled by a single supreme authority.. The territory included in such a unit.. An extensive enterprise under a unified authority: a publishing empire.. Imperial or imperialistic sovereignty, domination, or control: “There is a growing sense that the course of empire is shifting toward the . . . Asians” (James Traub).. . Then we can perhaps still discern some differences between our republic (no matter how dysfunctional) and an empire that sets out to dominate other groups on a political, economic, cultural and religious. basis. There is a difference between leadership among a group of allies and domination of other people.  Perhaps the low approval ratings for the present administration show that the people of America are not ready for Empire.  There is a very useful discussion of American Empire versus American Hegemony at this site:. http://hnn.us/articles/1237.html. So what is an empire? The examples offered above can illustrate a definition.  Whether we look at the British empire, which at its height in 1919 covered a quarter of the world's surface, or the Mongol Empire which is the largest land mass empire in history, the distinguishing trait is force and conquest. People are subjected to the empire, no one petitions to join it.  Another characteristic that can be seen in an Empire unmentioned above, the Islamic empire of the Caliphates (640-1000) is dominance of one group over the other groups within the body of the Empire.  Whether it is the dominance of a religion by which power is exercised as in the Caliphates, or in imagined ancestry as in the Roman empire (no power for non-Romans,) or race as in the British empire with its clubs and codes, one group dominates the others and demands that all in the empire conform to their norms. . So on this basis which empire is/was the most powerful?  Well as another answerer said, it depends on what you mean by power.. If we mean the empire the lasted the longest, we would have to go with the Roman Empire; excluding the republican period, the empire lasts over 400 years.  We could add another 800 years if we include the successor Byzantine empire.. If we mean the empire that grew the quickest, it would have to be the Islamic Caliphates. in a mere 60 years, the empire grew to cover all of the Mideast, North Africa, Spain and parts of Central Asia and India. An amazing rate of conquest never equaled in history.. If we mean the empire that has had the most influence on its subjects, it would have to be a tie between the Islamic Caliphates with the spread of Islam, and the British empire and the spread of the English language and its institutions.. But if we talk of armies, power and largest land mass, then it would be the Mongol empire which destroyed anyone who stood in its path of conquest, and stretched from China to Southern Russia. Cities, entire nations were destroyed by the Mongol armies.  However, it may be significant that out of all of the empires mentioned, it lasted the shortest amount of time and had the least influence on its subjects.. Perhaps if we want a good model of empire and a good reason to see all imperial ambitions as ultimately fruitless, we should look at a recent example of Nazi Germany.  it was a classic empire in that it used force to dominate other nations and people, it saw itself working for the benefit of the imperial elite (the Nazis) at the cost of all other people within its domination and it attempted to expand to a universal domination.  it may well have been a powerful empire, but it ended where all other empires have - in the dustbin of history.