I was told by someone with friends of this belief, that satanism is based on worship of the self and the worst sin is self-deception.. . That value placed on truth does not go against Buddhist respect for wisdom and avoiding self-delusion; and Christian love of seeking God's truth. However, both Christianity and Buddhism warn against selfishness, selfish desire, or coveting which cause spiritual misery to oneself and others. . . By equating the evil of Satan with selfishness, it is no wonder the U.S. is called the Great Satan if our commercial culture promotes free choice of what we want better for our "selves" and pushing one's "self" to gain as much as possible for our own individual success. It does seem to be very selfishly oriented.. . Clearly, if taken to extremes, selfishness causes all the separation, sin and suffering in the world. Only if one truly respects oneself and holds oneself responsible for upholding equal respect for others, this can be kept in balance with selflessness, which taken to extremes can also cause undue imbalance and suffering in relationships.. . The truth is to balance self with others, not to put one above the other to the detriment of anyone, but to live in truth and harmony.. . If you look up 'satanism' on the internet, you can find sites that list the principles and references.  Beware - among the people who practice satanism, there is much in their past or current thinking that attracts negative spiritual influences due to mutual separation from the Christian culture. So by interacting with those rejected by or even against Christian tradition, you can also find yourself affected, often adversely, because of the lack of unity between these groups which can attract ugly spirits to manipulate both sides, neither of which is more or less to blame than the other -- they both suffer for the separation and misunderstanding of the link between divine and natural laws.. . All my friends who have interacted with someone who experimented with practices related to spiritism, wicca or satanism have from time to time been plagued with spiritual ills they could not shake or break free from.  My friend who is gifted in Christian healing prayer had to pray with many of these to break them free from the past influences that had them stuck.. . So please do not study spiritual dark forces or such without first protecting and arming yourself equally with knowledge and authority of positive spiritual and healing powers through Christian prayer.  My only friends who are able to practice wicca or other natural spiritualism without negative side effects equally embrace Christian practice, so I think that open acceptance and balance keeps them from getting into trouble that others encounter who reject Christ and then fall victim to negative spirits.