Creationists just don't want to believe anything that disagrees with what they want to be true.  I've written several essays on the subject - some of which I've cited below.. . --------------. . . Is Theism compatible with science? Can you be a Christian and practice science? Is it possible for creationism to be 'scientific'?. . To the first two questions, the answer is a qualified 'yes', to the last question; it's a resounding 'no'.  The reason for this is varied and will take a bit of explaining on my part in order to explain what the distinction is.. . In order to understand what the relevant problems are we have to understand what science is founded on.  This is important because the foundation of science is exactly what is challenged by creationism - and if creationism is correct then science is impossible - as is induction, which is one of the tools of science.. . With that said I'll get into what science is founded upon, which is namely methodological naturalism.  This just means that science is based on the idea that the world is natural, has natural explanations for phenomenon, and that we can trust our observations of the past to extend into the future - which is to say that nature is uniform; i.e., gravity is constant throughout the universe as opposed to just being in this solar system since the 1600's.. . This is a very important assumption that science is forced to take.  If it didn't take this assumption there would be no way to test phenomenon for causal relationships.  After all, if we don't hold that nature is uniform, that means that it could just be a coincidence that when we drop a pencil it falls to the earth.  It could be the result of little invisible and immaterial hobgoblins that magically pull the pencil to the ground.. . Here in lies the significant problem: If we don't hold to methodological naturalism, how can we know whether or not gravity is actually the result of these hobgoblins?  We have no way to test for the supernatural and there could be no tests to find out whether or not gravity was a result of these hobgoblins.  In short, we couldn't trust any accumulation of knowledge - since we arrive at our knowledge through natural means (i.e., our sense perceptions).  Since our sense perceptions are not 'supernatural' and do not allow us access to understanding and interpreting the supernatural, they would be useless in the discovery of knowledge.. . So the assumption of methodological naturalism is foundational to scientific inquiry.  It should be noted that methodological naturalism is not the same thing as metaphysical naturalism - which is the belief that all there is, is natural forces.  . . This is how it is possible for a theist or a Christian to practice science; they can assume methodological naturalism without assuming metaphysical naturalism.. . On the other side of the coin, the fact that science demands the foundation of methodological naturalism means that creationism cannot be scientific.  This includes intelligent design and young earth creationism - this is because both theological positions posit that god interacts with natural forces.  . . What's wrong with that?. . Well, as I explained earlier, in order to perform science - in order to trust that what we have discovered, such as gravity, is or has causal effects on our world - we have to assume methodological natural: we have to assume that nature is uniform.  Uniformity of nature means not only that the forces that govern this side of the universe should also govern the other side (if they are 'universal forces', such as gravity/relativity), but that they have done so throughout the history of the universe (granted their forces correspond differently with the different stages of the big bang - according to natural principles).. . Creationism on the other hand insists that nature is not uniformed - because god created it, or because god interfer