WHAT IS THE TRUE RELIGION?. . . Where am I coming from, where will I go? What is the meaning and purpose of my life? What is death like? Is it certain that there is life after death? Do Paradise and Hell exist? What is the origin of life? Where is our Creator? What does the Creator demand from us? How can I discern between right and wrong? Where do I find the answers to these questions?…. For ages, people have sought answers to these crucial questions, given serious thought to them and discussed them thoroughly. Yet, contrary to what is generally believed, in all ages, the most reliable answers to these questions have been provided, not by the philosophers, but by the "true religion" which is the revelation of God. . Many religions have attracted adherents throughout the world-Buddhism, shamanism and paganism to name but a few. However, none of these were the revelation of God. Therefore, they were nothing more than a philosophy or a movement. Some, having merely a symbolic or cultural meaning, provided no social or psychological solutions to problems. Those who developed these religions, too, thought over these crucial questions, yet they could never find reliable answers. . Nevertheless, there are some "righteous religions" which have to be evaluated separately from these false religions. The most important feature of righteous religions, which distinguishes them from false religions, is their origin: they all have their roots in revelation. God informs mankind in the Qur'an about the superiority of the religion of truth over all other religions, philosophies or sociological systems:.  . It is He Who sent His messenger with guidance and the religion of Truth to exalt it over every other religion, and God suffices as a witness. (Surat al-Fath: 28) . . It is He Who sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of Truth to exalt it over every other religion, much as the idolaters may hate it. (Surat as-Saff: 9) . . Judaism, Christianity and Islam are the religions which have their roots in revelation. Originally, they were all revealed by God, yet after their respective messengers, Christianity and Judaism were corrupted. . Man made countless distortions in the Old and New Testaments-making additions and deletions-and as the original books disappeared in time, various forged Old Testaments and New Testaments appeared. Meanwhile, the originals were completely forgotten. Hence, followers of these religions deviated from the original divine religion, and founded their beliefs, rituals, worshipping and life styles upon a wholly distorted understanding of religion fabricated by clergy and rabbis. Today, these beliefs and interpretations still persist. Thus, these distorted religions are very far from providing answers to the questions mentioned above. . After the distortion of these religions, God revealed the last divine Book, which will remain unchanged until the Day of Judgment, and He will be the One Who will surely guard it against all distortions: . . We have, without doubt, sent down the Message; and We will assuredly guard it (from corruption). (Surat al-Hijr: 9) . For 14 centuries, the Qur'an has remained unchanged, and free from corruption. Every single letter of the original hand-written copies of the Qur'an has a one-to-one relation to the current copies we have today. In every corner of the world, people read the very same Qur'an, which proves that the Qur'an is kept under the special protection of God. . Throughout history, God communicated His messages, either by His messengers or His books. The Prophet Adam (as), the first man God created on earth, was assigned the same duty by God. In other words, the first people who appeared on earth were fully aware of the existence of God. Then followed many other messengers and books all throughout world history. This fact is recounted in the Qur'an: . . Mankind was once a single community. Then God sent out prophets bringing go