This is a great time in history to revisit this question since fear is once again the impetus for enacting laws. Harry Anslinger was the first drug czar in the US. He successfully began a campaign of fear during his reign as czar. He is responsible for much of the drug policy in this country, none so much as the "evil weed" Marijuana. He sparked the hoopla that gave us "Reefer Madness". Anslinger used totally biased medical research as his grounds for making marijuana illegal. The real reason Marijuana is illegal is fear of minority groups, who were much more public about their use of Marijuana during Anslinger's time. Jazz musicians used Marijuana for relaxing, to help play music, and to help write music. In fact a quote from Anslinger reads ""Marijuana is taken by '.....musicians. And I'm not speaking about good musicians, but the jazz type...' “(Harry J. Anslinger, Federal Bureau of Narcotics, 1948). There was fear the youth of America would be drawn in by the appeal of Jazz music and a style of living that was counter intuitive to the ideas of how Americans should carry on their daily lives, in the opinion of these politicians anyway. This disregard is still seen in the music industry from Shooter Jennings "Busted in Baylor County" in country to the Streets with "The Irony of It All" in hip hop. There was also a fear of Hispanic people who were entering the country, for the same reasons Americans fear their entrance today, because we are lazy and complacent. So many laws based on fear are being enacted these days, so I do not see a possible reversal of the Marijuana Tax Act (look it up on Wiki) anytime soon. Your question makes a great point also, People die in drunk driving accidents every day, but it is legal because politicians enjoy spirits at social functions because they repress so much of themselves they need booze to keep from crying. There are no recorded fatalities from Marijuana. Cigarettes cause cancer, to be fair so can marijuana that is smoked, but much less marijuana is smoked by heavy marijuana smokers than is by heavy tobacco smokers. I know this sounds like a lesser of two evils situation, but more so why does the Government care about the health of Cigarette smokers so much that they require strict standards in the growing and production of Tobacco and cigarettes. Then turn around and sue these companies on behalf of smokers who new the dangers of smoking. There is money in this old industry that, and also in the alcohol industry, that greatly helps grease the wheels of politics in this country. Both industries do not want the competition from Marijuana, its safer, there’s no hangover after indulging, and it is cheap and easy to grow at home.