Supplies you need: . - a good filter designed for the size of your tank. - a heater designed for the size of your tank. - an aerator (bubble stone or power head). - a hood that fits your tank with light. - water dechlorinator chemicals (anything that removes the .   toxins from the water such as chlorine - Cycle is a great   .   product). - decorations (whatever you want). - tropical fish flakes (any type you want). . Thoughrally rinse all your decorations (gravel, artificial plants, rocks, etc). Do NOT use soap or bleach under any circumstances, then place in tank in desired locations. Install the filter and heater according the manufacture's instructions. Set the heater to 78 degrees.. . Using a bucket, or jug fill the tank very slowly with slightly warm water (not too hot, not too cold) until the water is 1 in below the rim of your tank. This is important. You must let the water sit for at least 48 hours before you put any fish. A new tank system is very delicate.. . Start with only a couple of "starter" fish. Platys or Mollies are a good bet. Introduce them slowly into the new tank. Place the bags, unopened, in the tank so that they float. Wait 15 minutes, then cut the bag open and let them out.. . You must let the enviroment cycle before you put in any more than that to allow the beneficial bacteria to get established. This usually takes 6 weeks of undisturbed growth. If you happen to purchase water testing kit (which I would reccomed), then you will first see the ammonia level rise. When the ammonia breaks down it turns to Nitrite. When the nitrite breaks down it will turn to nitrate. When you notice the first two levels are down to normal, and the nitrate is at a reasonable level, the cycle is complete.. . After that you may add more fish! Only a couple at a time as to not stress them out too much. Do not overpopulate your tank however. A good rule of thumb is 1 inch per gallon (keep in mind those are adult sizes!).. . Do a partial water change once every one or two weeks. Make sure to add the appropriate amount of water conditioner to the new water!. . You've picked a great hobby. Good luck!