Oh, for goodness sakes.  People. . .ONE LAST TIME!. . Catholics DO NOT WORSHIP MARY!. . Catholics, with all their emphasis of Mary, will always realize and tell you (some with better words than others) that every Marian devotion, every feast of Mary in our calendar, every mention of the name Mary, really is directing us to Christ. We celebrate her and emphasis her but, as Dante placed in the mouth of St. Bernard at the end of the Paradiso, we always see her as the "daughter of her Son." The great devotional phrase of Catholics is "to Jesus through Mary." One might respond that we don't need anyone between us and Christ. That is right. But Mary is NOT between us and Christ. She was a disciple before us and is an example to us. We believe that by our baptism we are all part of the Church, living or already passed from this earthly life. There is still a bond of love and honor between us. How can we not love His Mother and she us? And what honor does it take from Christ to love whom He loved so much as to choose as the vessel of His conception, from whom He assumed our human nature. Without her Yes and gift of assent of will, the assumption and redemption of our human nature by a Man/God would not have happened. . . When I first became a Catholic I had a hard time understanding why Mary was so important. Why we needed to look at her life. The comment Father Z made says it all. If we look at, really look at, Mary's life, we learn how we should follow Jesus. . . In every instance that Mary is mentioned in the bible she is either bringing Jesus to us (as in the Visitation and in encouraging Jesus to preform a miricle at the marriage of Canna); obeying and trusting in God even when it is difficult (the Annunciation); or staying with Him, even under the most difficult circumstances(standing at the foot of the cross). . . In every story about Mary, we learn how we are to act. How we are to follow Jesus. . . The more we learn about Mary, the more we learn how to be true disciples of Jesus. . . So if anyone tells me that they think I worhiped Mary, I would try to explain to them how learning about Mary is helping me learn how to truly follow Jesus.