Ultimately, peace is a choice.  In a hypothetical world, peace could be universal on account of consensus among the population -- not regarding every detail of every issue, but simply allegiance to the ideal of peace.. . In that way, disputes might arise from misunderstanding or accidental trespass, but they would always be resolved peaceably.. . Someone argued that apart from human conflict, the world would be boring; I dissent: the industry of man has for too long been directed against other men: there are civil aims to which the labor of mankind ought to be employed.. . In that ideal world, there would be no material disparity and persons would apply themselves primarily to those activities for which they had aptitude:. . fishermen would fish, farmers would raise crops, ranchers would raise livestock, scientists would experiment, teachers would instruct, pornstars would entertain (just seeing if you were still reading) -- but no job would depend for its performance on labor conscripted for economic necessity.. . Moreover, disparity of opulence among dwellings and personal possessions would be matters of personal choice; mechanized transportation would be universal, as would be all modern utilities.. . All of this, of course, depends on the willingness of able-bodied persons to labor for a better society while accepting the laziness of those benefitting from their efforts -- a self-solving problem that would manifest itself on occasion.. . Eventually, doing nothing becomes exceedingly boring, and the energy of everyone else doing what they wanted, when they wanted, would be both seductive and intoxicating:. . Chronic laziness would be eliminated because it is rooted in the absence of hope for a better future in a materialistic society.. . As soon as a person can have anything he or she wants, he or she will discover the passion for applying himself or herself towards some greater thing -- towards building or maintaining or teaching or discovering, etc.. . However, as this world moves inexorably towards totalitarianism, peace will in the short term become an increasingly elusive aim.  After the resistance is quashed, a leader will oversee the reprogramming of the People -- thus creating, albeit artificially, the requisite consensus.. . And, until someone reveals what has been done, the consensus will reign: "peace on earth" -- at least in the sense that brainwashed slaves can be considered "at peace."