KEGELS (Excercising The PC Muscle). http://www.jackinworld.com/expert/10selfcont.html#kegelmen. . There are exercises called Kegels for men that increase orgasm intensity. Kegels for men increase sexual feeling by strengthening the pelvic muscles. To get in touch with your pelvic muscles, pretend you're in danger of urinating or having a bowel movement but that you have to wait until you're near a toilet. The muscles you squeeze to hold it in are your pelvic muscles. To strengthen these muscles, start by holding and releasing them 15 times, twice a day. Don't hold the contraction — just squeeze and let go. You can do this unobserved almost anywhere — while driving a car, reading the paper, watching TV, during a meeting ... wherever. Gradually increase the number of squeezes until you're up to 75, twice a day. When you reach 75 at a sitting, instead of immediately releasing the contraction, hold it for a count of three, and then relax and repeat. Work up slowly to about 50 of these longer Kegels. Continue doing the exercises for six weeks, alternating between the shorter and the longer Kegels. The results should be noticeable in your orgasms after a month or more. Once you have the technique down, you can squeeze your pelvic muscles when you're having an erotic fantasy, when you're being sexually stimulated, or when you're having intercourse. Feel free to experiment and see what methods increase your orgasmic intensity the most.. . Exercise regularly.Exercising your PC muscle can help you shoot further than ever before.Read How to Exercise your PC muscles at http://www.ayurvediccure.com/penis_enlargement_stretching.htm . . . PC Exercises:. While Kegel exercises can help you last longer, they can also aid in increasing sperm volume. There are a host of exercises you can do to keep your penis in great shape and shoot like a champion. . (Butter's note: PC muscle exercises have proven to help reduce prostate troubles in advancing age, but I have yet to see improvements in my ejaculate's volume through this method). . Of all the various aspects of the male human body, few are as variable from individual to individual as semen. The color, texture, and quantity — not to mention the force of ejaculation — vary greatly. Based on outward appearance we are all amazingly similar: virtually everyone has eyes, ears, a nose, and a mouth in the same place. But semen just doesn't work that way. . Just like penis size, ejaculation volume and force are highly variable from individual to individual. Most guys want to ejaculate more semen with more force.. If you've done exercises like Kegels For Men, yes, it may have increased your distance — but probably not your volume. There's a *huge* variation from person to person with regard to ejaculation force as well as volume, and neither has anything to do with anything important (such as having children).