All depends on what you define as simple.. . How is a pubic lice infestation treated?. A lice-killing shampoo (also called a pediculicide) made of 1% permethrin or pyrethrin is recommended to treat pubic lice. These products are available without a prescription at your local drug store. Medication is generally very effective; apply the medication exactly as directed on the bottle. A prescription medication, called Lindane (1%) is available through your health care provider. Lindane is not recommended for pregnant or nursing women, or for children less than 2 years old.. . Malathion* lotion 0.5% (Ovide*) is another prescription medication that is effective against pubic lice.. . How to treat pubic lice infestations: (Note: see section below for treatment of eyelashes or eyebrows. The lice medications described in this section should not be used near the eyes.). . Wash the infested area; towel dry. . Thoroughly saturate hair with lice medication. If using permethrin or pyrethrins, leave medication on for 10 minutes; if using Lindane, only leave on for 4 minutes. Thoroughly rinse off medication with water. Dry off with a clean towel. . Following treatment, most nits will still be attached to hair shafts. Nits may be removed with fingernails. . Put on clean underwear and clothing after treatment. . To kill any lice or nits (attached to hairs) that may be left on clothing or bedding, machine-wash those washable items that the infested person used during the 2-3 days before treatment. Use the hot water cycle (130°F). Use the hot dryer cycle for at least 20 minutes. . Dry-clean clothing that is not washable. . Inform any sexual partners that they are at risk for infestation. . Do not have sex until treatment is complete. . Do not have sex with infected partners until partners have been treated and infestation has been cured. . Repeat treatment in 7-10 days if lice are still found. . To treat nits and lice found on eyebrows or eyelashes:. . If only a few nits are found, it may be possible to remove live lice and nits with your fingernails or a nit comb. . If additional treatment is needed for pubic lice nits found on the eyelashes, applying an ophthalmic-grade petrolatum ointment (only available by prescription) to the eyelids twice a day for 10 days is effective. Vaseline* is a kind of petrolatum, but is likely to irritate the eyes if applied.