The religions of Islam and Judaism share many similarities. Muslims believe in only one God (Allah), the creator and sustainer of all creatures and the universe, who prescribes the Muslim's way of life. Following Islam and obeying its teachings, as set forth in the holy book the Quran, is the most important thing in a Muslim's life and requires adherence to mandatory practices that may not tolerate violations. Observant Muslims believe that the best way to maintain their mental, physical and spiritual well-being is to adhere to the Islamic teachings and the rules of Allah through practice and moderation in all aspects of life.. . Muslims consider their health a religious matter and they believe that good nutrition is one of the essential steps toward maintaining good health. For Muslims, health and food are considered acts of worship for which Allah must be thanked.. . Similarly, in Judaism the Hebrew Scriptures, which include the Torah, emphasize one God, the creator and the author of everything in the universe. The Torah contains religious laws set forth by God that address all aspects of Jewish life. Books such as the Talmud are used to interpret and apply these Jewish laws in daily life.. . Both Muslims and Jews consider eating to be a worshiping matter that requires following the dietary practices and requirements set forth in their respective holy books. I will discuss some of these specific dietary needs in the next two sections of this article. As always, however, care providers must be sure to view each patient as a unique individual and not make blanket assumptions or generalizations about the patient's religious needs. How strictly a Jewish or Muslim patient chooses to follow his/her religion's dietary practices can vary widely. The best way to determine a patient's religious, cultural and/or dietary needs is simply to ask the patient and/or family members.. . Islamic Dietary Practices. . Islam prohibits Muslims from consuming any of the following items:. .     * Alcohol. This includes alcoholic beverages such as wine and liquor, as well as any food items that contain alcohol. Islam forbids the use of any mind-altering substances, whether in the form of food, drink or smoking. Muslims believe that maintaining health, Allah's gift, requires mastering full control over one's mind, body and spirit at all times..     * Pork or any pork products, such as lard, ham and pepperoni. This includes consuming any food that contains these items in any concentration or amount. Therefore, all foods containing animal shortening are forbidden, since this shortening is usually made from pork fat. It is permissible.       to eat foods containing vegetable shortening..     * Blood. Raw meat must be soaked in water to drain out the blood before cooking. Muslims are permitted to eat only well-done cooked meat where no trace of blood can be found after cooking.. . Islam also forbids cooking, eating or drinking from any pans, dishes, cups or table utensils that were used to prepare food containing pork or alcohol. They cannot be used to prepare or serve food for Muslims until they are thoroughly washed.. . Animals and poultry must be slaughtered by cutting both the neck artery and vein to cause instant death and decrease animal suffering. The name of Allah must be mentioned during the slaughtering of the animal to bless it and make it Halal (lawful) to eat.. . Islam also stresses certain hygienic measures such as washing hands before and after eating, and cleaning the teeth frequently. A Muslim who has eaten onions will pray at home, rather than in the mosque, so as not to offend others and the angels.. . Jewish Dietary Practices. . Jewish dietary laws are known as kashrut and food that adheres to these standards is called kosher. Many mandates of the kosher diet are similar to those found in Islam. For example:. .     * ating any pork or pork products, including animal shortening, is prohibited..     * All bloo