Sixth Sense May be a Little Short-Sighted LOL. .   Actually, there are apparently a good dozen senses and some psychological researchers have catalogued more than 20 different types of intelligences.  It's just because when most of us were children they talked about five senses just as they talked about 9 planets (most astronomers today don't believe that Pluto fits the definition of a planet and many believe there are two more <both larger than pluto> lying even further from the sun than pluto) that we still tend to talk about merely five senses.. . But answering your question in the spirit in which it was written, I won't nitpick.  Whatever number of human senses scientists and medical people come to finally document, there will always be talk of other (one or more) perceptive abilities that lie outside the 'normal' range of the vast majority of people.  ESP (extra-sensory perception) as the original 6th sense meant some power to perceive outside of what ordinary smell, sight, sound, taste and touch brought the individual human being.  . . This sixth or extra sense seems to explain the virtually unexplainable to many people.  To some people simple intuition is considered an 'extra' sense.  To others spectacular athlethic abilities uniting two or more of the other senses (e.g. sight and sound such as when a centerfielder turns his back to homeplate in order to run full speed to the spot where he will finally look over his shoulder as he jumps to catch the ball) and other seemingly spectacular coordinations of multiple senses constitute the sixth sense.  Finally to others almost magical powers (pretty much unscientifically substatiated gifts) like clairvoyance, telekinesis, telepathy, etc. are the only 'extra sensory' powers worth talking about.  . . From a logical point of view, ESP of this latter type is almost unprovable.  For an example of this:  the sleeping prophecies of Edgar Cayce have largely proved out to be hogwash.  But his hypnotically inspired medical treatments in cases where conventional medicine failed seem to be a case of major miracle after major miracle (Cayce, I believe, had an eighth grade education).  But no scientist worth his salt will study the incredibly well-documented records of Cayce the 'doctor' because Cayce the sleeping prophet was a total washout and has no credibility.  In other words, when it comes to wielding ESP, everyone who claims to do so, fails at least as often as they hit and 50/50 doesn't excite anyone.