Most of my grandparents were democrats but they became republicans because they said the party had strayed into the hands of foreign intrests who wanted to ruin or overthrow the USA. It is a case of being closer aligned with similar intrests, realistically all politicians are in it for themselves first and all that partisan sniping is just smoke and mirrors. BUT I believe in the U.S. Constitution/Bill Of Rights and the dream of democracy and freedom stretching back beyond 1776 into Europe, with the Declaration of Arbroath, the address by the Bruce to his troops at Bannockburn, the Magna Carta and ancient Greek and Minoan civilizations, and the writings of Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine and John Locke. If any part of that is going to be criticized as religous fanaticism, it's only in Thomas Paine's assertion that God gave man the freedom to choose whether to have faith in Him or not by NOT proving He exists, and that no lesser being had any right to demand our worship. No one will tell me I must worship anything, that I can't speak my thoughts, or go where I want when I want. And I'm an NRA life member because I believe as long as I'm not trying to harm anyone no one has a right to call me a criminal and take my firearms. You have a right to own a gun that is bound with a responsibility military duty to your country if called, being able to handle and use one effectively makes a big difference when needed by your country. You do NOT have a right to own or operate a motor vehicle, but they kill and injure more people than guns, plus the global warming thing, and no one thinks twice of giving a teenager keys to a two ton killing machine. I value all forms of life, I don't like hypocrits who whine about overpopulation, sustainability, urban sprawl, etc. and then support wholesale immigration. Or whine about spending too much on our military but get $37 opera house (pork) like Sen. Hillary did for one town that needed one to compete with a neighboring village. We send too much money to the UN and overseas, we need to take care of our citizens first, and then worry about giving charity to the rest of the world. I fault republican leadership on not keeping the "term limits" pledge of Newt's 1994 "Contract With America", for not dealing with immigration, for not making trade with countries like China dependent on a global standard of human rights, labor and enviromental practices so our industries can compete, for not chastising Mexican Pres. Fox for his failure to take care of his own people instead of dumping his problems on us, for not passing a work visa/immigration law as tough as Mexico has, for not punishing the price gouging/extortion of oil and gas retailers, for not pushing renewable energy the way Gov. Schwarzenager did in CA. (I could go on but won't), basically I think for myself, I will not be told by Karl Rove or Bob Shrum what to think or say, I want law and order and good morality, live and let live and "The Golden Rule", but I will defend my family, my rights and my country with my life if need be, because I believe in them. I'm not saying democrats, at least my grandparent's democrats, were any different. And locally I vote 50/50 but state and national I vote republican/conservative. The important thing is get everyone (legal) to vote, it matters.