Many patients travel from United States of America and UK to get low cost of Open Rhinoplasty Plastic surgery in India. One of the most frequently asked questions when considering Open Rhinoplasty Plastic surgery is "how much?" and “what is the price of surgery in India?”. . Oftentimes, patients choose their surgeon on the basis of price. . The cost of Open Rhinoplasty surgery is very affordable in India and costs are much lower when compared to the United States, UK and other countries. However, since the success of your surgery is largely dependent on your choice of surgeon, cost should not be your main consideration for your decision to undergo Open Rhinoplasty Plastic surgery in India.. . I checked out the website of Forerunners Healthcare –which is the premier most medical tourism company in India offering low cost surgery in India to International Patients. They have served more than 400 International patients from across the globe (specially US and UK) to get low cost affordable surgery in India at the best Hospitals and Medical Institutions. And the general price of the Open Rhinoplasty   Plastic surgery is as follows-. . The Cost of Open Rhinoplasty surgery in India is $ 1,890.. . http://www.forerunnershealthcare.com. . In India, any licensed medical doctor can perform Open Rhinoplasty surgery. To avoid unsatisfactory results, it is best to choose a surgeon who has completed an accredited residency-training program in Open Rhinoplasty surgery. He should have extensive experience in the procedure you will undergo. That’s when Forerunners Healthcare come into picture-helping you get the best surgeon for your surgery at the most affordable prices in the best Hospitals of India.. . Your surgeon's skill can make all the difference between a good and an average result. Thus, although it is understandable that price is one of the considerations in your choice of surgeon, it is important to remember that the main consideration should be your surgeon's professional qualifications and experience.. . Besides that you should look into other issues related to traveling abroad, which is your visa, passport, climate, cultural issues and language barrier. Although language is not a problem in India –as most of the people are well verse in English. But you should make sure that you have a reliable hand holding person to guide you through the various steps of getting medical treatment and surgery in India.. . . Hope this helps.