1- stoning to death is the punishment of making sex relationships outside marriage .... . 2- this punishment is made to keep the society healthy ... a society with no bastard children ... or prostitute women ... that may cause the spread of diseases and the ruin of stable marriages .... . 3- if you know that your country has such a law ... i don't think you will ever think of doing such a foolish act ... that means that this punishment is rarely applied .... . 4- yes ... Islam is the religion of peace and love to everyone even those who are not Muslims ... the father of the prophet's wife was Kaffir(worships idols) ... but still he could visit his daughter in the house of the prophet and he was welcomed though ... and was never harmed or badly treated .... . Proof from Quran:. . 1. a verse that proves that Allah commands Muslims to be be peaceful:. . 4:94. "O you who believe! When you go in the Cause of Allah, verify (the truth), and say not to anyone who greets you: "You are not a believer"; seeking the perishable goods of the worldly life. There are much more profits and booties with Allah. Even as he is now, so were you yourselves before till Allah conferred on you His Favours, therefore, be cautious in discrimination. Allah is Ever Well Aware of what you do". . 2.A verse that proves that Muslims should not make sex with their slaves or captives against their will:. . 24:33. "And let those who find not the financial means for marriage keep themselves chaste, until Allah enriches them of His Bounty. And such of your slaves as seek a writing (of emancipation), give them such writing, if you know that they are good and trustworthy. And give them something yourselves out of the wealth of Allah which He has bestowed upon you. And force not your maids to prostitution, if they desire chastity, in order that you may make a gain in the (perishable) goods of this worldly life. But if anyone compels them (to prostitution), then after such compulsion, Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful (to those women, i.e. He will forgive them because they have been forced to do this evil action unwillingly).". . 3. A verse that proves that Muslims should not kill any innocent except by the islamic law -- like one killed another and judge said he sould be killed for doing that ... etc.:. . 6:151. "Say (O Muhammad): "Come, I will recite what your Lord has prohibited you from: Join not anything in worship with Him; be good and dutiful to your parents; kill not your children because of poverty - We provide sustenance for you and for them; come not near to shameful, indecent sins whether committed openly or secretly, AND KILL NOT ANYONE WHOM ALLAH HAS FORBIDDEN, EXCEPT FOR A JUST CAUSE (ACCORDING TO ISLAMIC LAW).This He has commanded you that you may understand". . 4. A verse that tells Muslims to argue gently with People of the scripture(Christians and Jews):. 29:46. "And argue not with the People of the Scripture, unless it be in (a way) that is better (with good words and in good manner, inviting them to Islamic Monotheism with His Verses), except with such of them as do wrong, and say (to them): "We believe in that which has been revealed to us and revealed to you; our Ilah (God) and your Ilah (God) is One (i.e. Allah), and to Him we have submitted (as Muslims)."". . i hope i answered your question the best way i could ... and i hope you are open-minded as i hope ... best regards .... . P.S. i'm a Muslim Girl... i wear Hijab(Veil) willingly ... i work as a java developer in a leading company in my country ... and on my masters degree in computer science ... and i beleive in my religion so much with every cell in my heart and soul ...