Well the term "liberal" and "conservative" are very inaccurate in description of poilitical parties. I know dems. that are very conservative and many reps. that are pretty liberal. . . And as for being selfish, I don't see that. Everybody, well  those with a sense of brotherhhod with their fellow human beings, wants to make the world or at least the U.S. a better place. So the fact that their opinion on how to do that differs from yours, hardly makes them selfish. I'm a died-in-the-wool democrat. I'm just able to identify with that party more. Yet on both sides of the fence are people with very good ideas on how to make the world a better place. And on this, as well as other issues, I agree with one of my heroes Sen. John McCain that there is a need for both parties to come together and share ideas to move foward, rather than being at each others throats all the time.. . And as for "liberals" not wanting to make money, can you say Warren Buffett. And I realize that it doesn't take alot of skill to work at McDonalds, but the fact remains that there are many unemployed people who either don't have any marketable skills, or they can't get hired on anywhere because "W." doesn't seem to care about the unemployment problem. And the fact remains that dems. have always been for the working class and reps. have always been for the wealthy, not the rich, the wealthy. (Shaq is rich, the man that signs Shaq's check is wealthy). . There's only one time in the history of the U.S. that the economy didn't go into a recession after a war, and that was after WW II, when a dem. was at the helm. That's even after the fact we just went through the Great Depression.. . And on point number three, as for why kids can't learn anything, there are many reasons, and excuses why. And both sides make excuses about that, so lets not use a double standard here. One standard will do just fine. We have to look at many things. The teaching quality. The students learning habbits. The parents. I know it's an ugly truth but not all kids are going to make it. But we should do everything we can to help them all succeed in their educational endeavors. And lowering the bar for schools,  teaching and learning requirements isn't going to help.  Remember we want smarter kids not dumber ones. And by setting the bar so low, we are bascially telling them that "It's o.k. to strive for medicroty." The real world is a nasty place, and they need to be prepared for the next level.. . And as for 9/11. We may never ever fully understand the reason for their attacks. It's something that may not be fathomable, or comprehended. They didn't happen because Bill Clinton was the previous president and dropped the intelligence ball. And they didn't happen because George W. Bush was president and dropped the intelligence ball. The World Trade Center Comission and others like it stated that the daily C.I.A briefings did not contain that particular nugget of intelligence. Allegedly, the C.I.A. knew that the terrorists were planning something big at the beginning of Sept. yet failed to notify the F.B.I. So right there is a major break down in communications. Could it have been avoided? Sadly we will never know the answer to that question.. . Excuses? Almost every administration makes excuses for what they have and have not done. The lie President Clinton told about Monica Lewinsky, pales in comparisson to the lies that President Bush and his not-so-straight administration has served up to the American Public.. . Basically what it boils down to, is that our ELECTED officials need to remember it that they are just that, ELECTED. And we as citizens of this great nation, need to do a better job of reminding them that they work for us. Not the other way around. And for those that wish to impose their will on us, it's time that we stand as one, with voices stentorian, and ma