Sounds like you've got your hands full.  You've really got three problems:  cleaning, toilet training, and getting some cooperation from your kids.  Even though you didn't ask, I can't help weighing in on that one as well.  Hope you don't mind.. . Cleaning:  There is an enzyme cleaner that you can use which literally eats the bacteria that causes pee and poo odor in your carpets and upholstery.  You may need to use it more than once.  Since it sounds like you've got a prolific pooper on your hands, buy two bottles of it.  That will take care of the smell.. . Kids:  Your kids already know you won't get rid of the puppy, so you can't threaten with that.  Since they are not helping and appear to be hindering the process,  I would suggest giving them some consequences for failing to help.  If the dog is not put in his crate and he messes in the house, first of all, the 14 year old needs to be responsible for cleaning the mess, and if a carpet shampooer is required, the kids should pay for it if they work or get allowances, and they should be the ones doing the shampooing.  My daughter would rather cut all her hair off than shampoo the carpet.  They may not do as good a job as you would, but you'd be getting your point across.  The kids also need to be responsible for taking the little guy for walks.  I don't know how many kids you have, but a dog can't have enough walks.  Each kid needs to be charged with the responsibility of walking the dog once a day.  The one who is the morning walker will probably have to get up half an hour earlier in the morning, so that should probably be the 14 year old, since it's her dog.  If you have two kids, the other can walk the dog after school.  If you have three, the third can walk him right before bedtime.  If they don't walk him for at least 15 minutes (longer as he gets older), some privilege needs to be taken away, because they are depriving the dog of his walking privilege.. . Training:  At four months, the puppy should be able to "hold it" for about four hours.  If he can't, something is wrong and he should go to the vet.  Take him out right before work.  If you can get home for lunch, take him out at lunch (if not, make sure one of the kids takes him out for a walk the minute they get home from school), and then make sure you're taking him out the minute you get home, and every 3-4 hours while you are home.  Praise him and pet him to high heaven when he potties outside.  When he goes in the house, put his leash on him, walk him to where he messed, scold him very loudly and very seriously, and then take the mess, and him on his leash, outside to where you want him to go.  Don't hit him, because he won't know why you're doing that and you'll just make him afraid of you, and don't rub his nose in it because that is mean and disgusting.  A good stern scolding should be enough, if applied consistently.  Dogs believe they were put on this earth to make us happy, and if he knows he's making you unhappy, he'll figure it out pretty quickly.  He can hold it for an hour for each month of his age until he hits about 10 months.  You shouldn't expect him to hold it any longer than that, although if he is in his crate, he will probably hold it a bit longer so as not to mess where he sleeps.. . You've already said you won't take him to the pound, so I probably don't need to beg, but I will:  Since it is a pit bull, PLEASE do everything you can to socialize him and make him a good family member.  Too many people who pick up pits at the pound are idiots who will mistreat him and make him mean.. . Good luck with the puppy.  I hope I've helped.