earthquake is a phenomenon that results from and is powered by the dynamic release of stored energy that radiates seismic waves. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes may manifest themselves by a shaking of the ground, sometimes inflicting damages and causing losses of human life and destruction of property.. . Earthquakes may occur naturally or as a result of human activities. In its most generic sense, the word earthquake is used to describe any seismic event—whether a natural phenomenon or an event caused by humans—that generates seismic waves.. . . . California, is a state spanning the southern half of the west coast of the contiguous United States. With a population of 36 million and an area of 158,402 square miles (410,000 km2), California is the largest U.S. state in population and the third largest in area.. . The area was inhabited by Native Americans before European explorers started to make sporadic visits during the 16th Century. Spain colonized the coastal areas of the territory starting in 1769 before it temporarily became part of Mexico after the Mexican War of Independence (1810-21). Mexico essentially ignored California for the next 25 years. At the outset of the Mexican-American War (1846-1848), the state was captured by 500 American soldiers and sailors. Following the war, the area was bought by the United States in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The California Gold Rush of 1848-49 brought about 90,000 additional American immigrants into the state, and California became the 31st state of the United States in 1850.. . Although the state's sunny climate has given it a historic reputation for being laid back compared to the East Coast of the United States, California's economy is larger than all but the top 5 national economies in the world, $1.55 trillion (as of 2004), and is responsible for 13% of the United States' 13 trillion dollar gross domestic product (GDP). The state's major predominant industries include agriculture, entertainment, light manufacturing, and tourism. California is also the home of several significant economic regions such as Hollywood (entertainment), the California Central Valley (agriculture), Silicon Valley (computers and high tech), and the Wine Country (wine).