Funny you should ask. I just had a 2 1/2 year 'friendship' end this afternoon. It's not your garden variety friendship, however. It started out as head over heels; openly for me, but I didn't find out she felt the same way until a year and a half later. Longggg story. But to the question of being taken for granted. It caused me no end of stress. I easily caried 80% of the load, so to speak, in this friendship. It actually had 2 rather lengthy breaks for just this reason.. . In describing it, I would say that the main reason for stress, for me, was due to the lack of respect on her part for me or the friendship. Respect is extremely important for us males. She readily admitted on numerous occasions that I was very patient and supportive of her as a person as well as a friend and would promise to stop holding me at arm's length. Initially, things would be great for a week or two and then right back to the old grind. . . I found myself frequently running angry conversations through my mind, "telling her off" and letting her know that I was sick of being taken for granted and wasn't going to put up with it, etc. But I would always refrain from actually doing so, to "take the high road", but I couldn't help but think to myself, "I really don't need this aggravation. It can't be good for my health." . . Then of course, there was the stress of waiting for timely responses - or any response at all. Case in point: she was supposed to stop by and see me this weekend (she lives out of state) and promised to fill me in as the time drew near. Yeah, never heard from her until today, after I finally spoke my peace about being blown off by her. Her response was to end the "friendship". . . So, how do I feel now? Truthfully, at first I was going to send some vitriolic reply, but figured that's just what she'd want, so I didn't. But now, after calming down, it's like a weight has been lifted from my shoulders. I mean, sure, it would have been nice to have things work out, but things were NEVER going to change. I kept hoping against hope, as they say, and while there is some small disappointment, ultimately, I'm really just thankful that I won't have to deal with the B.S. anymore. . . I hope this helps. If you have any other, more specific, questions that you'd like to ask that would help you, feel free to contact me.