because when you have a cold the best thing to do is to blow your nose, because of the mucus that can back up and cause a sinus infection as well as upper respiratory system.You nose, ears, eyes, and throat are all connected and can be infected. Plus some people like to breathe from there nose and its bites when you can't when you have a cold. . . . I just got over having a sinus infection.  Its gotta come out some how.. Always blow into a tissue or hanky and always constantly wash your hands to avoid contact or spreading or getting sick. . . Improve drainage of mucus and reduce swelling in the sinuses. . Relieve pain and pressure. . Clear up any infection. . Prevent the formation of scar tissue, and avoid permanent damage to the tissues lining the nose and sinuses. . . . Best way to not get a cold. Best Bets for Prevention. There are some effective ways to prevent colds, most of which are common sense methods designed to prevent the spread of viruses in the first place.. . These tips include:. . Wash your hands frequently. This is often your best defense. Wash the entire hand using warm water and soap. Don't forget to clean under fingernails. . Avoid putting your hands near your eyes, nose or mouth, unless you have washed. Most bacteria and germs are spread from a surface to your hands to your face. . Cover your cough. Covering your mouth when you cough prevents airborne spread of viruses and bacteria. . Clean your 'shared spaces' more often than other times of the year. Remember phones, keyboards, steering wheels, office equipment and other items used by several people during the day. . Get a flu shot. Flu shots are especially beneficial for those with weakened immune systems, the elderly or those who come in contact with a lot of people. Even if you don't get the flu, the vaccine has been shown to shorten the duration of other viral illnesses.. . Get enough sleep. During sleep, your body's immune system goes into high gear to protect you from illness. Lack of sleep can reduce immune functioning making you susceptible to sickness. . Drink more water. In the fall and winter, it is easy to overlook your thirst and get dehydrated. Make sure you consume 8 glasses a day. But don't reuse or share water bottles! . Continue a moderate exercise program. Try to maintain a 3-4 day a week exercise routine. . Eat a healthy diet. A well-balanced diet helps maintain a healthy immune system.