The principal one who represented the people before God. He was also charged with supervision of all the other priests.. . The Bible uses various terms to designate the high priest, namely, “the high [literally, great] priest” (Nu 35:25, 28; Jos 20:6, ftn), “the priest, the anointed one” (Le 4:3), “the chief [or, high; literally, head] priest” (2Ch 26:20, ftn; 2Ki 25:18, ftn), “the head” (2Ch 24:6), or simply, “the priest” (2Ch 26:17). In the latter case the context often makes clear that the high priest is meant. In the Christian Greek Scriptures, “chief priests” is evidently used to denote the principal men of the priesthood, which might include any ex-high priests who had been deposed and possibly, in addition, the heads of the 24 priestly divisions.—Mt 2:4; Mr 8:31.. . The appointment of Aaron, Israel’s first high priest, was from God. (Heb 5:4) The high priesthood of Israel was inaugurated in Aaron and passed down from father to oldest son, unless that son died or was disqualified, as in the case of Aaron’s two oldest sons, who sinned against Jehovah and died. (Le 10:1, 2) King Solomon deposed a high priest in fulfillment of divine prophecy and put another qualified man of the line of Aaron in his place. (1Ki 2:26, 27, 35) Later on, when the nation was under Gentile rule, those Gentile rulers removed and appointed high priests according to their will. It seems, nonetheless, that the line of Aaron was quite well adhered to throughout the entire history of the nation down till Jerusalem’s destruction in 70 C.E., although there may have been exceptions, such as Menelaus, also called Onias (Jewish Antiquities, XII, 238, 239 [v, 1]), whom 2 Maccabees 3:4, 5 and 4:23 indicates was a Benjamite.. . Qualifications and Requirements for Office. In harmony with the dignity of the office, the high priest’s closeness to Jehovah in representing the nation before Him, and also the typical significance of the office, the requirements were rigid.. . A list of disqualifying physical blemishes for all priests is set forth at Leviticus 21:16-23. Additional restrictions were placed on the high priest: He was to marry none other than a virgin of Israel; he was not to marry a widow. (Le 21:13-15) Furthermore, he was not allowed to defile himself for the dead, that is, he could not touch any human corpse, even that of his father or his mother, because that would make him unclean. He was neither to let his hair go ungroomed nor tear his garments for the dead.—Le 21:10-12.. . The Bible does not specifically state the age of eligibility for high priest. While it gives a retirement age of 50 years for Levites, it does not mention any retirement for priests, and its record indicates that the high priest’s appointment was for his lifetime. (Nu 8:24, 25) Aaron was 83 years old when he went with Moses before Pharaoh. His anointing as high priest apparently took place in the following year. (Ex 7:7) He was 123 years of age at the time of his death. During all this time he served, with no retirement. (Nu 20:28; 33:39) The provision of the cities of refuge takes note of the lifetime tenure of the high priest, in requiring that the unintentional manslayer remain in the city until the death of the high priest.—Nu 35:25.. . Installation. Some indication of the office Jehovah had in mind for Aaron is seen in privileges given him soon after the Exodus from Egypt. In the wilderness on the way to Sinai, Aaron was the one commanded to take a jar of manna and to deposit it before the Testimony as something to be kept. This was before the tent of meeting or the ark of the covenant was yet in existence. (Ex 16:33, 34, ftn) Later, Aaron came to be the one in full charge of the sacred tent and its Ark. Aaron and two of his sons, with 70 of the older men of Israel, were specifically named as privileged to approach Mount Horeb, where they saw a vision of God.—Ex 24:1-11.. . But Jehovah made his first actual statement of his