that's not it. it's because whenevr a "non believer" gets preached to, it's by a christian. not because they ar the most intollerant, but because honestly, they make up a large majority of the population of the world. combine all christians together, and that's a lot of people. here's a story:. . i'm not christian, or athiest, or muslim. i'm not anything. i'm a theological history student. to me, religion tends to be a lot of stories and fluff behind a very basic concept of a higher being. THO, i do believe in god, if not more than one. so i was at barnes and noble in the new age section, looking at books about different religions. i LOVE to read holy scripts, wether it's the quran, the necronomicon, the bible, or the book of the dead, i love it. they are good reads from a historical and literary standpoint. so i'm lookin at the necronomicon, and lookin at the biography of the author. and a christian lady walks upt o me and says "why would you want to read such a damned script? you WILL go to hell if you dont believe in jesus. why don't you read the bible? it's a much better read because it's true!" She didn't know that she was talking to an AVID blible reader. i've read it 3 or 4 times front to back. so i responded "i've read it, and the only good part is at the end of the world in revalations." she looked offended, and looked at me like i was satan himself. . . so here's my point:. did a muslim walk up to me? did a pagan walk up to me? did an athiest walk up to me? no...a christian did. and that's why athiests attack them. it's a war. christians push and push and push, and athiests push back. love thy neighbor as you love yourself, it's the basic law of christianity. but interpret it this way, treat people as you want to be treated. if 10 christians go out and preach to 10 people, one of them will be an athiest just by chance. and that athiest will fight back, and they should. what right does anyone have in telling anyone else that they are wrong and you are right? they have none. so the day that the christians stop pushing, then the athiests will. and dont give any of that crap "we are tryin to save your soul for your own good." well, the athiests are trying to save your time and resources. you have 2 different, but similar goals. so consider the repercussions when you preach, that's my point.