In a scented country by the sun caressed, by the sea teased and adored like precious mistress, I've met, beneath a shelter of purple desire, a Creole lady of unguessed charm. Her name was Agriope. Some people knew her as Eurydice. She was pale, and warm like a sun ray; nobility was molded in her long neck; Rumors spread to name her a Nymph … Agriope often was unintentionally visiting her friends, men and women alike, in their unspeakable dreams…Among of all the sons of the land, a stranger came from Thrace, Orpheus the musician; he stole the heart of Agriope with his wonderful songs and the dreamy harmony of his lyre. The couple was enjoying their love in the seaside of their scented country, but then a Pirate came, Aristaeus, and grabbed Agriope. Besides being a pirate, Aristaeus was a God empowered with considerable gifts and might. He traveled Agriope in stormy rivers and high mountains far away; they slept in forest glades and enjoyed each other under the moonlight of the distant lands to the North. The skin of her body so beautiful, under the moonlight shimmered like silk! Yet Agriope could not forget the magic sounds of Orpheus’ lyre, neither the soft eyes of her beloved partner she had given oath to honor. One evening, when Aristaeus was out for hunting, she decided to flee. The Gods were always intervening those old times and send yellow snakes after her. Oh, divine Apollo, show Agriope the vipers coupling under the withered grass. Alas… The loss was so close. Using the dying flames of her being, she traveled back to the seaside of the scented country, to her beloved Orpheus. She was hoping their two hearts will be again these two immense torches reflecting their light into their souls, those twin mirrors, for ever. Alas, in vain… Her soul was now in the hands of Hades, the God of the Underworld, God of the Dead… An Eagle flying over was the messenger to Orpheus, they say. The poor man was distraught. His heart once more disgorged the old uprooted love affair. In the sick silence of the night, Orpheus played such sad songs and sang so mournfully that all the nymphs and gods wept and gave him advice. Even Hades, the dreadful new ruler of Agriope’s soul felt the magical mourning of the orphic lyre. It was the first time in the human history that Persephone, the Iron Queen, the Maiden, the terrible Empress of the Dead, permitted a mortal to visit the Underworld. Orpheus would be allowed to claim back from the dead the soul of his beloved. But the condition was attached that he should walk in front of his darling and not look back until they had reached the upper world. O Moon whom our ancestors adore, followed by the stars in dashing attire, ancient lamp of our haunts. Do you see the lovers on their dangerous path, the devotee leading the way to the leaving ones, the mistress following the footsteps of her master? Orpheus, was a mortal with the anxieties of the mortals. Living is an evil. That's a secret known to all. Semper Eadem. He broke the promise. The vague terrors of the other frightful nights returned. Horror at seeing love turning to devotion. Agriope vanished again from his sight. This is the End...