putting lightning rods up IS part of having faith.. . you can't have real faith unless you do your best to do what you can to positively affect the situation.  if you do your homework and study, you'll have more confidence that you'll do well on the test.  if you help your parents mow the lawn and take out the trash, you'll probably feel more confident that they'll be willing to give you a ride to the store.  God always wants you to be happy.  He also knows there are certain things you need to learn, like self-sufficiency.  God, like your dad or mom, is also more willing to help you out when you have done your part.  ('Cause if He does it all for you, you wouldn't learn anything, and, ultimately, you wouldn't be as happy.)  Sometimes your part is most of what is required to obtain what you hope for.  Sometimes your part couldn't possibly approach what is needed, but at least you showed God that you were willing to do your part, and then, when it is right, He steps in to do the rest.  He really does!. . faith is an action word.  an example of faith:  get on your knees and pray as if everything depends on the Lord, then get up and work as if everything depends on you.  So, praying that the church will be protected and then putting up lightning rods, well, seems like the right thing to do.  Sort of like finding out your mom has cancer, praying for her, and taking her to the hospital.  just makes sense.  you wouldn't do one and not the other, would you?  if really matters to you, you'll probably do both - and that's how it should be.. . reminds me of the story of the man who got up on his roof during a flood and prayed to be saved.  a boat came by and offered him a lift.  he refused; said God would save him.  a raft floated by, and he didn't get on.  guys came in a helicopter and lowered down a basket . . again he declined, again saying he believed God would save him.  the waters rose.  he drowned.  he met God and asked, why didn't you save me?  God said: i sent you a boat, a raft and a helicopter - what more did you want?. . Yes, I think putting up lightning rods doesn't diminish faith, it adds to it!. . Best Wishes!