The destruction of the world trade centre and the attack on the pentagon has been described as the greatest act of terrorism. . However history demonstrates that the most horrific acts of Terrorism has been carried out by the freedom loving democratic nation, the United States of America . According to their own Official FBI definition of terrorism: “Terrorism is the unlawful use of force or violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a government, the civilian population, or any segment thereof, in furtherance of political or social objectives.” . .  IRAQ : .  From 1991 to the present day the United States Air Force and Navy have slaughtered over 200,000 civilian people in Iraq with Depleted Uranium missiles, cluster bombs, cruise missiles and other so-called “smart bombs.”.  During the “Desert Storm” terror campaign the arsenal also included fuel-air bombs and napalm. 177 million pounds of bombs were dropped on the people of Iraq in the most concentrated aerial bombardment in the history of the world. In the 110,000 sorties of the six-week onslaught the cowardly American and British pilots (and to a lesser extent French and Saudi pilots) mass-murdered at least 200,000 people, using depleted uranium missiles, napalm, cluster-bombs, fuel-air bombs, cruise missiles and other so-called “smart bombs.” The slaughter of civilian people in the Amariyah bomb shelter was a Prime example of this American/British state terrorism. Most of them were women, children, elderly, and invalids from a new housing development. Cowardly U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force jet pilots caught one sixty-mile-long column of fleeing Iraqi soldiers and Palestinian civilian families in vehicles on the Kuwait to Basra highway - and pounded them ruthlessly with bombs and machine-gun fire. The road, clogged by four lanes of one-way, bumper-to-bumper traffic, was carpet bombed by B-52s dropping 1,000-pound bombs, and repeatedly hit with laser-guided missiles and “smart” bombs. All the Iraqi soldiers, as well as Palestinian workers and their families, were slaughtered without mercy. The bloodthirsty American pilots gleefully described the massacre as “shooting in a sheep pen.” .  During the Desert Storm terror campaign at least 944,000 rounds of Depleted Uranium ammo were fired from American A-10 Warthogs all over Iraq and Kuwait . When a depleted uranium tipped shell strikes a tank or armoured personnel carrier it easily penetrates the armour and burns the crew alive. The impact also vaporizes the depleted uranium, creating an aerosol of radioactive heavy-metal particles which can spread as far as 190 miles on the wind. When inhaled or ingested, the depleted uranium particles cause chemical and radioactive damage to the bronchial tree, kidneys, liver and bones. Cancer often results, and the effects can even include genetic damage. .  The Dutch Laka Foundation estimates that the United States terror campaign left behind 300-800 tons of radioactive waste from this ammunition all over Kuwait and Iraq - poisoning the air, the land, the water and the people everywhere. Afterwards, wherever the depleted uranium firing had been concentrated, there were cancer epidemics among Iraqi civilians living nearby. In the ten years since then, sanctions, polluted water and depleted uranium together have killed somewhere between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000 Iraqi civilian people. At least 600,000 of the dead are children. Cancer rates have quadrupled in areas of southern Iraq bombed by the American and British state terrorists. Since it began, thousands of Iraqi babies have been born with horrible birth defects. This is something that has never before been seen in Iraq . .  Over the course of only 43 days and nights, approximately 62,000-80,000 air-delivered cluster bombs were dropped on the Iraqi people by the American-led state terrorists. In addition, 10,000 MLRS rockets and 100,000 “Dual Purpose Improved Conventional Munition” artillery she