Sales and marketing are totally different. To succeed in today’s marketplace, it is critical that you have a clear understanding of the difference or I guarantee you it will cost you, and cost you big..  . What’s the Difference? .  Sales is what you do when you are one on one with a prospect. Sales is the scripts you say, the techniques you use to drive home a point or persuade a person to write an offer or to sign a listing contract. You read a prospect’s buying signs, then adjust your response to the prospect and the situation.. . Understanding the difference between sales and marketing is essential to effective lead generation, and Greg’s expertise on this subject can be a tremendous asset to your career. . . Sales.  . Most agents are well trained in one-on-one selling. They memorize the scripts; if a prospect says “x”, then they respond with “y”. Agents are taught to focus on the customer’s needs, sell the benefits, ask “yes” questions, send up trial closes and then make sure to close at least five times; if they still have not signed, go back and start over with more benefits. This is the classic sales mentality that most agents have been indoctrinated with. Agents spend countless hours learning, practicing and perfecting their sales skills. . Once agents start to feel confident in their sales skills, they start looking at everyone as a potential prospect. They start to believe that if they are a good enough sales person, they can sell anything to anyone. I remember reading an old sales book that said, “a great sales person could convince people to buy things that they never heard of, never wanted, would never use, yet still make a prospect feel like they had made a wise decision to buy.” I constantly run into agents that with great pride tell me that they have a 90% or 95% closing ratio. This is all fine and good. Having great sales skills gives you a powerful advantage in the marketplace. The problem I see is when an agent’s sales mentality starts to creep into their marketing materials..  . Marketing, Defined .  Marketing is what you do to attract prospects before you meet them face-to-face. Marketing is stimulating a prospect’s interest and desire so that they what to buy in the first place. Personal marketing is not only stimulating interest, it is doing it in a way that makes the prospect want to buy through you. Great personal marketing creates a steady flow of people who are interested in working with you, so that when they call you they are already predisposed to working with you.. . The key difference you must understand is this: what makes a great one-on-one sales presentation is not the same thing you can use to make great marketing materials. So many agents take their very effective one-on-one presentation, put it on paper and call it marketing. Marketing starts by reaching out and grabbing a prospect’s attention by capturing a reader’s imagination. This is best done with a strong, emotional appeal that draws a reader along, getting them to imagine what it would by like to have a new home.. . Think about this way: What if a guy decided he wanted to get married, so he developed a list of all the benefits he had to offer a prospective wife? He then wrote that list of benefits on paper and sent it out to 1,000 single women. What kind of response do you think he would get? This is like putting a sales presentation on paper and calling it marketing. It simply does not work. Marketing is an attraction process that creates interest that gets a steady flow of dates coming your way. Not everyone is a perfect fit, but when you have a steady flow of new prospects coming your way, your chances of success go up significantly. .  . What to Do? .  So, you have come to the realization that you have been using too many sales pitches in your marketing materials. What now? . Start by just looking at your marketing materials. Do they look great? When you’re looking good, you attract more atten