Whate State did accident occur/date.) Please explain what yo mean by what . . I'm sorry, I wrote you a lengthy 45-1hr responce and was attemptint to attach a traffic diagram temp-plate to assist you and the system flashed and went blank for a moment -- erasing everthying. My name is Steve and I'm a carer Texas Peace Officer, the last 17 spent as a Field Training Officer for Dallas, Texas PD. I can help you, but I really need additional information. If you can end me more details and waht you mean by "what is the procedure" and what state the accident occurred in, I'll help you wih any questions and resources I can. I was trying to downlaond an insert a copy of an accident diagram when I lost everything, If you feel comfortable enough doing so, it might be easier for me to email you directly so I can attach or try includung excerpts and HTML diagrans to help you further. Feel free to email me at my nonpublicized account at DallasBlue08@aol.com. and I'll get back to you ASAP. Helpful info for me would be things like whate state the accident ocurred in, Street/block, intersection; County, City, Time of Day, Weather conditions ( Rain, wet asphalt, cenet, etc.) typeof roadway- (Divided 2 way w/shoulder w/solid yellow divider; Divided highway,barrier, etc. )(double yellow line) , direction of travel, type of vehicles involved, m/c rider(helmet, no helmet) speed limit, (ANY-contributing factorson either vehicles part , such as excessive speed, road/construction conditions, Description of what police or itnesses say happened, attached police report if you have scanner/capabilities.  ( Description of injuries, if family memberbe brief, just give some basic details known regarding ejection/ route/ final resting ....if no police report, if possible hand sketched accident diagram showing roadway, intersection or nearest intersection, any contrbuting factors or objects ( Trees, poles, traffic control devices (signs) or T.C.Signals (Lights). If fatality is a family member please include DOB/Lic State/Exp date/Endorsements ( To verify he had no lic violations that may be used later in court), Any DL info. info regarding other vehicle/ driver info. Any contributing factors ( Sun in Eyes, Sudden vasive action to avoid accident ) Age of rivers, any prior negative history, DWI,DUI's, Detailed account of what you know or have been told occurred and any enforcement actions by investigating officers?) Please state if you are related to deceased or other driver? Driver history ( If negative) (Insurance?). Survivor's injuries summary.