MASTURBATION MYTHS:. from http://www.jackinworld.com/library/myths.html. . Chances are, of all the things you've heard about masturbation, most of them were absolutely false. For some reason, misinformation surrounds masturbation like virtually no other topic. How do you spot a masturbation myth? One simple method is to ask yourself if the statement is also true of sexual intercourse. When you're masturbating, your body only knows it's getting sexually stimulated; it doesn't know by what means. So, for instance, if the question is whether or not masturbation causes acne, think of it this way: If it did, intercourse would also cause acne. In fact, neither masturbation nor intercourse cause acne.. . MYTH:. Masturbation causes hair to grow on your palms.. FACT:. How many people with hair on their palms have you seen?  . MYTH:. Masturbation causes hair loss, chronic fatigue, and other problems.. FACT:. Internet scam artists have tried to invent a concept called "overmasturbation," insisting that you have to buy their expensive herbal pills in order to counteract the effect of masturbating more than a couple of times per week. But the pills have absolutely no effect — and masturbating once or twice a day will not make your hair fall out, or cause anything else they claim.. MYTH:. Masturbation is bad for your eyesight. . FACT:. Masturbation does not affect eyesight. This myth probably originated because boys often start having to wear glasses at about the same age they start masturbating. . MYTH:. Masturbation causes your penis to stop growing (or) to get bigger. . FACT:. Masturbation has no effect on penis size whatsoever. . MYTH:. Masturbation causes your testicles to shrink.. FACT:. Absolutely false! It is true that if you're highly aroused, your testicles become engorged with blood and may appear slightly larger and heavier, and that masturbating will make them revert to normal. But they will absolutely not be any smaller than after the last time you masturbated. . MYTH:. Masturbation causes acne. . FACT:. It doesn't cause acne. Like the eyesight myth, this is a case of two things that happen at the same time, even though one doesn't cause the other. . MYTH:. Masturbation causes sexually transmitted diseases. . FACT:. Hello? "Sexually transmitted" means from one person to another. You can't give yourself a sexually transmitted disease! . MYTH:. If you masturbate too much, you'll run out of semen and become sterile. . FACT:. Semen is a fully renewable resource. When you ejaculate semen, your body simply makes more — the same way your body makes more saliva after you spit. . MYTH:. People can tell whether you masturbate by how your penis looks. . FACT:. Masturbation does not change the appearance of your penis. (It does tend to cause an erection, but that usually goes away when you're finished.) . ------------------------------------------------------------------. Masturbation Frequency:. http://www.jackinworld.com/misc/faqtree1.html#mastfreq. . How often does the average male masturbate?. It depends on a lot of factors, the most important being age. For an 18-year-old male, a rough average is once a day or so. This is slightly higher for younger teenagers — maybe 10 or 12 times a week, and slightly lower for older people. You might be surprised by how often adult men masturbate — even happily married men.. . I think I'm addicted to masturbation. Is that possible?. It is, although many, many people think they're addicted when they're really just doing what comes naturally. For more on this topic, read the article Is Masturbation Addictive?(http://www.jackinworld.com/library/articles/addict.html).. . How can I masturbate less often, or quit altogether?. It's tough; it takes a lot of will power. It can be done, especially if you're driven by very strong religious feelings. However, JackinWorld's position is that it's not worth it. We thin