"My first concern was how to get rid of them WITHOUT pesticides and dangerous chemicals. I did not want to resort to chemical warfare in my own home. After some internet research and few phone calls to the lawn and garden center and my local health food store, I found a way: Boric Acid and Citrus Peel Extract. Now, I don't want to give you the impression that just because these items are natural they are perfectly harmless, because that is not the case. Boric Acid is an ingredient in Borax, which of course you can find at any grocery store in the laundry detergent aisle. Citrus Peel Extract (also known as D-Limonene, or Permethrin) is a little more difficult to find, but if you shop around some health food stores and hardware stores may carry it. You will also find it as an ingredient in some natural pet treatments like Bio-Spot and other flea sprays found in pet stores. . . If you have cats, be VERY careful not to expose them to any Citrus Peel Extracts -- they are Volatile Organic Chemicals and cats are VERY sensitive to these -- it may cause seizures, vomiting and other problems of the nervous system in cats. If you have a dog that cats like to groom, do NOT treat that dog with it either. When I treated my carpets, I had to keep my cat in a bathroom for 2 days while it was settling into the carpets. After vaccuming, before I let the cat out, I made sure that there was no residue around or under the edges of the furniture, in corners or around the edges of the carpets at the walls. . To get rid of the fleas I sprinkled the carpets with the Boric Acid then sprayed with Citrus Peel Extract. It had to sit for 48 hours before Vaccuming. It killed ALL the fleas and larvae. Then, I put my vaccum bag in a plastic bag and placed it in the freezer overnight, just to be sure that the eggs couldn't hatch after the fact. I have continued to vaccum daily and place the bags in the freezer after each vaccuming to make sure that I am killing any leftover eggs/larvae. . . The veterinarian was sure that this would never work and told me that I would probably have to end up buying a fogger. Well, I proved them wrong! And I'm so relieved that I don't have to deal with the after effects of poisonous chemicals in my home! The fleas were bad enough!. . A safe flea and tick prevention for cats is Revolution. It is a topical pharmaceutical and absorbs within 2 to 3 hours maximum. No pesticide residues. Added advantages include deworming and heartworm protection."