Note: This is a partial answer to another question relating to the existence of God. There is more to what I have partially revealed that is far more extensive and would require a book-length treatise to fully connect the dots to the nature of God and man's connection to Him.. . God physically exists. He is just physically different. God Himself is The Book of Life. Every soul created from God (be it angel or human), are written in The Book of Life (which means are in harmony with God's state of existence from conception). "Spirits" are angels. The human race are spiritual descendants of God through Adam and Eve (who were both in harmony with God's existence and thus were in the Book of Life). . . S.I.N is Spirit Inverse Nature. God is Spirit. Anything opposite of God's Nature is SIN. Spirits created from God's physical existence is made from the stuff God is made of and is naturally in harmony with God's state of perfection. When a spirit does something opposite of God's nature, or SIN, they become inverted (their physical existence is literally opposite of God's nature). If an angel inverts, it is permanent because angels are made of the same stuff that God is made of: ENERGY. When energy changes form, it cannot change back to its original state. A raw egg when cooked can't be restored to its raw state. Thus, when an angel inverts, because it consists as conscious energy, it is permanent. Inverted angels are demons. When a spirit being inverts, they are no longer in harmony with God, and are thus removed from the Book of Life.. . A human being consists as spirit, soul, and body. The human spirit dwells within the soul. The soul is a composite of both the spirit and the body. The soul dwells in the brain and controls the body through the brain; which is why you are not dead until you are brain dead (without the aid of any machine). Human spirits are made of the stuff like that of angels, but consist as the raw material from which the human soul is created (and then co-exists interdependently within the human soul). The human soul is YOU - the individual who is expressing thought, emotion, and actions through the physical body. . . When Adam and Eve ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, their soul and body inverted and they became opposite of God's nature and their bodies began to age. God prevented them from eating of the tree of life to prevent their spirits from becoming inverted (and making it possible for their souls to be restored to God's nature of existence (to be reverted) through the blood of lambs).. . Genesis 3.21. . “Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them.”. . Leviticus 17.11 . . “For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement (reconciliation/restoration) for your souls: for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul.”. . Animals are governed by the spirit of life that dwells in them; and cannot invert, so that when they die, they are simply restored to God. The human body and the body of mammals are created from the earth, thus God was able to use the body of animals as a substitute for the inverted human body - through which the blood of that which is pure is used to cleanse that which is inverted (to temporarily restore them to God - which required a daily sacrifice until God Himself formed a body to provide His own blood to restore the human soul to Himself permanently).. . John 1.29. . “The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.”. . To take away the S.I.N. of the world is to restore the inverted state of man back to its original state. This can only be done through pure blood; which is why Christ said, . . John 14.6. . “I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father (is restored to The Book of Life as a son of God