I agree with your assessment that Muslims are more aggressively attacking that Christians. But your question shows how little you & others undersatnd Christianity. Islam is a religion that was based on hatred & vengenace against Jews and the Christian crusades. Therefore it exists to vent anger against the infidel (and yes - I have read the Q'uran. I don't speak out of ignorance and I'm not just parroting what I heard some intellectual say).. . Aside from belief that Jesus was who He claimed to be,  Christianity is based on two key priciples: love & mercy. Grace is the extension of these 2 principles applied in forgiveness and acceptance of others. People will claim that Christians hate gays, Jews, Muslims, etc. We do not hate. But our society has twisted disagreement to mean hate. We are commanded to love everyone. Not easy, and impossible without the love that flows from Christ to us. But still a long way from hatred.. . We are all in the same situation - we are all sinners, none of us is good enough in and of him/herself to overcome that, and we are saved only by the mercy and love I referred to earlier. We recognize that this is a universal fate and how can I argue or threaten someone who is in the same situation I am in? There are some Christians who allow too much of their human nature to get in the way their spiritual nature and they will be quick to criticize, etc. But our goal is to reach out in love & mercy no matter what - two ideals that the world (that's you & others with your view) don't and can't truly understand until you've received the ultimate forgiveness. . . You have the God-given right to speak your mind. Whether you believe in Him or not makes no difference. He loves you enough to allow you to live your life according to free will. What you do with it is your business, but there is accouintability at the end. All will die and will face judgement at the end. the only difference between you & me at that judgement is that I will have Jesus standing at my side telling teh Father to have leniency with me. As a non-Christian you will not have that benefit and will face the consequences for your actions. Very simple actually. . . As far as lame arguments, Jesus said something repeatedly that used to drive me nuts until I understood it' "Those with ears let them hear." Eventhough I had to come to an undersatndng through revelation, I will share what I have learned from you. Because of our freee will, we all come into every relationship with certain prejudices. Not always bad - we usually call them preferences. But if you are I was and like most others I have spoken with, your ears & mind snap shut as soon as you hear the word Jesus. If you're not willing to even listen to what is said without immediately thinking that it's b.s. or trying to figure out what you're going to say to rebut every statement, you can't hear what's really being said. All you hear is what you want to hear & then use that opportunity to amuse yourself by picking apart faith with your logic. . . But there's the real problem. Since you are a human and make mistakes, how can your logic be perfect? By definition there have to be flaws in your arguments. And when you are open to seeing them for yourself you will be open to hearing alternate views, like Christianity. Until then I will pray that you find the willingness to admit that you could be wrong and that I will be willing to truly listen without prejudice to others.