The pain stems partially from exposed nerves in the damaged skin, as well as those in the process of healing.  Aside from keeping them out of open air, and taking the drugs you were prescribed, there really isn't anything else that will help with the pain.  The odd thing about taking narcotics to control severe pain is that you seldom become addicted to them.  They work on a pain/pleasure center of the brain, to block the pain rather than in your case, to exert pleasure. It seems that since there is no pleasure associated with the medications, you do not tend to want them otherwise if you use them as prescribed and wisely.  Obviously you would not use them more than you needed, nor if you could use something of less strength..    Avoiding having air blow across the skin adjoining the burned area will help in not stimulating the damaged nerves, and maintaining a slightly higher temperature in your room so you don't get chilled.  Otherwise, burns are probably some of the most painful injuries there are.   I did part of my nursing training in a burn unit, and I found it very difficult to work there, because the pain levels the patients experienced were not easy to relieve unless the patient were unconscious.   Even the treatments depend on pain sensation- when you debride to remove dead skin, you actually want the person to have feeling- as that's the only way you know you are dealing with live and viable skin.  But knowingly inflicted that kind of pain on a person, even in the guise of helping healing, is very difficult to do on a daily basis..   I suppose the only thing I have to offer is knowledge that in your case, pain is a good thing. It means you are healing, and that the skin is still living- because it can feel.  I wouldn't worry about addiction, even in worst case and you do need them long term, the doctors will wean you off gradually and give you the assistance you would need to do it.  But in my experience, it was never needed when the patient was actually taking them for pain control and used them responsibly, which is what I think you are doing.  Use them when you feel the need, and tolerate pain as you are able, using less intensive pain killers when you are better healed and able.  Good luck, and I hope you heal soon.  Usually the first 2 weeks are the worst, and will gradually ease off after the skin is better healed over the nerves.   Avoid extremes of temperature, and eat nutritious foods to provide the things which help promote healing.   You should do fine.