Probably the easiest answer is that they are two different religions who follow two different prophets.  But, more specifically - refering to the differences you mentioned - has to do with the canonizing of the bible.  The church did remove several books and portions to make the bible more closely fit their views.  As with many arguments related to religion, the biggest reason the church gives us is that "the Bible is the Word of God, if He had wanted those books in the Bible, He would have made it so."  Not a very good "reason" if you ask me - especially when it's used to explain the actions of a group of men, working independently of their God to a rather un-christian-like means... the bible was canonized in the 4th Century AD (325 or "about 380" according to the sources I found).  Christianity - and religion in general - was a very volatile topic, keeping the Romans and many others on the road to war for many years.  Looking at the timeline between 200 - 400 AD (http://www.historychannel.com/timeline/index.jsp?year=200  http://www.historychannel.com/timeline/index.jsp?year=300) you can see Christianity was in need of some cohession and it was felt that the Bible needed to be refined as part of that.. . What I find so ironic is that both religions profess tolerance and peace, but will kill anyone who opposes them or doesn't conform.  OK, not Christianity so much, anymore - but they had their day.  . . But, I digress.  Both religions have similarities, yes, but so do many other religions of the world.  Most have an ancient tale of a Great Flood, most have a story of martyrdom for their God or prophet and how said prophet rose from the dead (rebirth).  Many of the stories you find in the bible directly parellel stories of Pagan beliefs - heh... kinda funny... God told the Christians to write down everything the Pagans had already known... and change it up a little to make it edgy... hip... in tune with (then) modern society.. . Oh, here's another link for ya - http://www.anabaptists.org/history/howwegot.html. . And in the interest of full disclosure, I am an athiest.