Check Engine light. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from "Check Engine" Light). Jump to: navigation, search. A "Check Engine" Light or Service Engine Soon is an indicator of the internal status of a car engine. It is found on the instrument console of most automobiles. When illuminated, it is typically either a red or amber color.. . The "Check Engine" Light, also sometimes known as a MIL (Malfunction Indicator Lamp), can illuminate for any of a very large number of reasons. Typically, the reason is not serious enough to affect drivability of the vehicle. Common causes include: loose gas cap, vehicle due for scheduled maintenance, or problems with the emmision control system (i.e., charcoal canister or oxygen sensor).. . This light became required on passenger cars due to emission control legislation in California, with the intention that the light would illuminate if there was a problem which would cause the vehicle to have excessive pollutant emissions. The owner would be aware that the emission control system needed to be serviced, and would be prevented from renewing their registration in the state of California. [citation needed]. . The "Check Engine" Light can also illuminate for reasons which may affect drivability, so it is advisable that one have the vehicle examined by a mechanic at one's earliest convenience. A preliminary diagnostic check can be performed by retrieval of the "trouble code" which has caused the light to illuminate. The cost of hooking up a diagnostic computer to retrieve said code varies greatly. Many dealerships charge $99 for this service.[citation needed] Private mechanics typically charge between $50 and $75[citation needed] while AutoZone offers the service for free.. . Once a "trouble code" has been pulled, the technician will have a better idea of what the problem may be. These codes are seldom specific, but instead tend to relate to a system of complex parts, thus requiring further diagnosis. Said diagnosis will require paying the hourly labor fee of a skilled technician.[citation needed]