Fried Yucca with Feta Cheese Sauce   . . 4 piece of yucca root . 1/4 cup Vegetable oil for frying . 2 tbl Fine chopped hot chile .     Pepper . 1/4 tsp Salt . 1/2 cup Vegetable oil . 1/2 cup Evaporated milk . 1/2 tsp Lemon juice . 1/4 cup Chopped onion rinsed in .     Boiling water . . Peel yucca down to white flesh and place in boiling water and boil for 20 minutes. Remove yucca and let cool. When cool, cut yucca into slices, being sure to remove the tough center fibers. Pan fry in 1/4 cup vegetable oil until browned. The sauce can be prepared while the yucca is cooling. Mash feta cheese and egg yolks together using a fork. Mix in chile pepper and salt with beaters. Pour in the vegetable oil a little at a time while beating continuously. Add evaporated milk and lemon juice and beat well.. Mix in onion. Serve as appetizer using the sauce for dipping or th yucca can be served as a side dish with the sauce poured over it. The onion can be place in a strainer and rinsed until tender in the boiling water from which the yucca was removed.. . . Mashed Yucca   . . 1/4 lb Yucca fresh or frozen . 1 tsp Salt . 4 tbl Unsalted butter . 6 x to 8 Garlic cloves minced . 1/2 cup White vinegar . 1/2 tsp Freshly-ground black pepper . 1 bn Italian parsley leaves chopped . . Wash and peel the fresh yucca or thaw the frozen. Place in a small saucepan, and add water to cover and 1/2 teaspoon of the salt. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer and cook, covered, until tender, about 30 minutes. Drain in a colander and set aside to cool.. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. When the yucca is cool enough to handle, pull each root apart and remove the large fibrous veins near the center, keeping the flesh in large chunks.. Melt the butter in a large skillet over medium-low heat. Cook the garlic until tender but not brown. Add the vinegar, the remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt and the pepper. Bring to a boil and add the yucca. Stir and mash with a wooden spoon until a lumpy mixture is formed. Transfer to a baking dish. Cover and bake 10 minutes. Garnish with the chopped parsley and serve immediately.. This recipe yields 4 to 6 servings.