This is a long list, but it covers just about everything.. A-. Ablutophobia- Fear of washing or bathing.. Acarophobia- Fear of itching or of the insects that cause itching.. Acerophobia- Fear of sourness.. Achluophobia- Fear of darkness.. Acousticophobia- Fear of noise.. Acrophobia- Fear of heights.. Aerophobia- Fear of drafts, air swallowing, or airbourne noxious substances.. Aeroacrophobia- Fear of open high places.. Aeronausiphobia- Fear of vomiting secondary to airsickness.. Agateophobia- Fear of insanity.. Agliophobia- Fear of pain.. Agoraphobia- Fear of open spaces or of being in crowded, public places like markets. Fear of leaving a safe place.. Agraphobia- Fear of sexual abuse.. Agrizoophobia- Fear of wild animals.. Agyrophobia- Fear of streets or crossing the street.. Aichmophobia- Fear of needles or pointed objects.. Ailurophobia- Fear of cats.. Albuminurophobia- Fear of kidney disease.. Alektorophobia- Fear of chickens.. Algophobia- Fear of pain.. Alliumphobia- Fear of garlic.. Allodoxaphobia- Fear of opinions.. Altophobia- Fear of heights.. Amathophobia- Fear of dust.. Amaxophobia- Fear of riding in a car.. Ambulophobia- Fear of walking.. Amnesiphobia- Fear of amnesia.. Amychophobia- Fear of scratches or being scratched.. Anablephobia- Fear of looking up.. Ancraophobia- Fear of wind. (Anemophobia). Androphobia- Fear of men.. Anemophobia- Fear of air drafts or wind.(Ancraophobia) . Anginophobia- Fear of angina, choking or narrowness.. Anglophobia- Fear of England or English culture, etc.. Angrophobia - Fear of anger or of becoming angry.. Ankylophobia- Fear of immobility of a joint.. Anthrophobia or Anthophobia- Fear of flowers.. Anthropophobia- Fear of people or society.. Antlophobia- Fear of floods.. Anuptaphobia- Fear of staying single.. Apeirophobia- Fear of infinity.. Aphenphosmphobia- Fear of being touched. (Haphephobia). Apiphobia- Fear of bees.. Apotemnophobia- Fear of persons with amputations.. Arachibutyrophobia- Fear of peanut butter sticking to the roof of the mouth.. Arachnephobia or Arachnophobia- Fear of spiders.. Arithmophobia- Fear of numbers.. Arrhenphobia- Fear of men.. Arsonphobia- Fear of fire.. Asthenophobia- Fear of fainting or weakness.. Astraphobia or Astrapophobia- Fear of thunder and lightning.(Ceraunophobia, Keraunophobia). Astrophobia- Fear of stars or celestial space.. Asymmetriphobia- Fear of asymmetrical things.. Ataxiophobia- Fear of ataxia. (muscular incoordination). Ataxophobia- Fear of disorder or untidiness.. Atelophobia- Fear of imperfection.. Atephobia- Fear of ruin or ruins.. Athazagoraphobia- Fear of being forgotton or ignored or forgetting.. Atomosophobia- Fear of atomic explosions.. Atychiphobia- Fear of failure.. Aulophobia- Fear of flutes.. Aurophobia- Fear of gold.. Auroraphobia- Fear of Northern lights.. Autodysomophobia- Fear of one that has a vile odor.. Automatonophobia- Fear of ventriloquist's dummies, animatronic creatures, wax statues - anything that falsly represents a sentient being.. Automysophobia- Fear of being dirty.. Autophobia- Fear of being alone or of oneself.. Aviophobia or Aviatophobia- Fear of flying.. B-. . Bacillophobia- Fear of microbes.. Bacteriophobia- Fear of bacteria.. Ballistophobia- Fear of missiles or bullets.. Bolshephobia- Fear of Bolsheviks.. Barophobia- Fear of gravity.. Basophobia or Basiphobia- Inability to stand. Fear of walking or falling.. Bathmophobia- Fear of stairs or steep slopes.. Bathophobia- Fear of depth.. Batophobia- Fear of heights or being close to high buildings.. Batrachophobia- Fear of amphibians, such as frogs, newts, salamanders, etc.. Belonephobia- Fear of pins and needles. (Aichmophobia). Bibliophobia- Fear of books.. Blennophobia- Fear of slime.. Bogyphobia- Fear of bogeys or the bogeyman.. Botanophobia- Fear of plants.. Bromidrosiphobia or Bromidrophobia- Fear of body smells.. Brontophobia- Fear of thunder and lightning.. Bufonophobia- Fear of toads.. C-. . Cacophobia- Fear of ugliness.. Cainophobia or Cainot