Where did you get the idea that abortion, gay marriage, and cloning are rights?  Just because you would prefer to do something doesn't make it a right.  Gay marriage, for example, has never been considered a basic freedom, and consequently, cannot be "removed."  Cloning people has never been done, period.  How then could it be a right?  How could the freedom to clone people be removed?. . You do understand, don't you, that opposition to gay marriage is not opposition to gays?  Every adult is free to have sex with any other adult who will consent to it.  Every adult is free to live with and make a lifetime commitment to any other willing adult.  No one will stop you.  If you think it will make you happy, pledge your undying love to someone of your own sex, move in and set up housekeeping; no one will prevent your trying it.. . But when you try to change what marriage is you are no longer talking about your own happiness, you are fooling with the fundamental structure of society.  If we expand the concept of marriage to include the union of two men or two women, why not three men?  Why not three women?  Two women and a man?  Many people live in polygamous arrangements now and polygamous marriage is allowed in certain countries.  How about seven women, three men and a goat?  "Well," they might say, "it makes us happy."  How about two men and a 12-year-old girl?  What if they were all happy?. . Once you cross that line, that marriage is a union between one man and one woman, can you think of any principled place to stop?  And if there is no rational basis to place a limit, then marriage has lost its meaning.  Instead of including gays in a venerable institution, you have destroyed the institution.. . There are so many issues with regard to cloning that space and time will not permit even a partial summary here, but surely you will agree with the basic premise that when you clone a human being, you have created another human being.  The clone bears the same relation to the original as one identical twin bears to another.  They are not two copies of the same person, but rather two different people with identical DNA.  All other reasoning about cloning flows from that principle.  The clone, once he exists, has the same right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness as the original.. . Similarly for abortion.  When you lament attempts to remove the freedom to abort a fetus, you must remember that a fetus is a person, too.  In fact, a fetus has an even stronger claim to personhood than a clone: he or she has an absolutely unique set of DNA, unlike any other person on the planet.  Aren't you concerned about his or her right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness?