An inverted pendulum is a physical device consisting in a cylinrical  bar (usually of alluminum) free to oscillate around a fixed pivot. The pivot is mounted on a carriage, which in its turn can move on a horizontal direction. . The carriage is driven by a motor, which can exert on it a variable force. . The bar would naturally tend to fall down from the top vertical position, which is a position of  unsteady equilibrium. . . The goal of the experiment is to stabilize the pendulum (bar) on the top vertical position. . This  is possible by exerting on the carriage through the motor a force which tends to contrast the 'free' pendulum dynamics. . The correct force has to be calculated measuring the instant values of the horizontal position and the pendulum angle (obtained e.g. through two potentiometers). . . The system pendulum+cart+motor can be modeled as a linear system if all the parameters are known (masses, lengths, etc.), in order to find a controller to stabilize it. If not all the parameters are known, one can however try to 'reconstruct' the system parameters using measured data on the dynamics of the pendulum. .   . . What is it used for?. The inverted pendulum is a traditional example ( neither difficult nor trivial) of a controlled system. . Thus it is used in simulations and experiments to show the performance of different controllers ( e.g. PID controllers, state space controllers, fuzzy controllers....). . The Real-Time Inverted Pendulum is used as a benchmark, to test the validity and the performance of the software underlying the state-space controller alogorithm, i.e. the used operating system. . Actually the algorithm is implement form the numerical point of view as a set of mutually co-operating tasks, which are periodically activated by the kernel, and which perform different calculations. . The way how these tasks are activated (e.g. the activation order) is calleding scheduling of the tasks. . It is obvious that a correct scheduling of each task is crucial for a good performance of the controller, and hence for an effective pendulum stabilization. . Thus the inverted pendulum is very useful in determing whether a particular schedulig choice is better than another one, in which cases, to which extent, and so on. . . To see a more detailed presentation of the system, and some experimental results, click here.