First, and foremost, you need to listen to the customer.  Determine what they need.  If it's for a product in your store, personally take them to that product and not just point in the direction where the product is located.  Once there, show the cutomer the product and ask if it what they are looking for and answer any further questions they may have.  If it is the correct item, offer to take the item up to the front of the store to customer service.  Offer assistance...if the customer needs help in another area of the store.  Additionally, keep an eye on that customer in the event they need additional assistance.  Here is another good store of "good customer service."  While working at a craft store last year during the holiday season, I had noticed this elderly lady making her way into the store.  It took all she had to make it....it was not only freezing outside, it was also snowing.  Once inside, she was not only exhausted, but looked frustrated to say the least.  She was holding an oblong burnt out light bulb in her hand.  I knew that we didn't sell them, although I was up for the challenge to help her!  I had approached her before she even had 10 steps into the front door!  She said she was at three other stores and no one had that light bulb and no one ever offered to help her.  I thought that it was VERY sad that she had to go through this!  First, I brought her up to our customer serive counter and allowed her to rest in one of our comfortable wheel chairs.  I then checked out inventory on the computer just to doble check and nothing was found.  I opened the telephone book and called a few different stores.  There were TWO stores that had the bulb in stock, the one closest to our store was actually more reasonable in price.  The customer didn't know how to get there, so I took a piece of paper and drew her a map.  I even wrote down the gentlemans name that I talked to and the price of the bulb for her.  She went over to that store, got her bulb.  Over the next several weeks, this woman came back into our store and asked for me.  She not only personally thanked me for helping her, but she talked with the store manager about me.  In spite of my position being a season job, this lady does still go back into that craft store hoping that she can find me because she knows that I would help her.....that is the best thing about helping people.....they come back and shop in your store.  So if it means calling you competition for a customer in your store to help them get what they want......do it....cause that customer will come back to you and shop with you.  Kind, customer service always comes back to you!!  I hope that this helps you!