Wittgenstein is not the first philosopher you should read. there are others whose contribution is more basic to the subject as well as easier to understand. These include Descartes, Locke, Hume and Mill. Amongst Wittgenstein's contemporaries they include Russell and Quine. In addition, Ryle's book "The Concept of Mind", published just before Wittgenstein's "Philosophical Investigations", is also highly influential as an argument aginst "The ghost in the machine", and is much more readable.. . Having placed Wittgenstein in context, his work is essential reading if you are to understand twentieth century philosophy, particuarly the philosophy of mind and of language, both of which have been crucial for twentieth century advances in thought. This applies both to Wittgenstein's earlier work, the "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus" with its picture theory of truth and the "Philosophical Investigations" which overturned Wittgenstein's earlier ideas with the notion of the language game.. . Wittgenstein is difficult to read, or rather to understand. You will need to read one, and probably several, of the many introductions to his works before approaching his main texts, and it will greatly help to go to lectures and/or tutorials on Wittgenstein. One reason is that Wittgenstein believed that philosophical works should stand on their own merit, and as a consequence the influence of previous philosophical thought on his work, for instance Augustine, Frege and Russell, is not always obvious.. . A further issue is that Wittgenstein's own ideas gave rise to a belief that the philosopher's personal life is irrelevant to his (or her) thought This belief has been followed by many more recent philosophers, but in Wittgenstein's own case it is very problematic. Wittgenstein's own life was remarkable in many ways, and deeply tortured. It may have led to inluences on his work that neither Wittgenstein nor his interpreters fully appreciate or wish to admit if they do. For this reason I would strongly suggest that you read the standard biography, "Wittgenstein" by Ray Monk, before or alongside your philsophical reading on Wittgenstein.