I do not think this is God's design.  We are all given free will.  There are more people living now than ever before.  People influence people.. . Let me explain this:. Sociology is why people and the world is getting better or worse.. We are social creatures.  In order to be accepted within. society/a country/a religion/a group/a team/a job we all must have common and accepted behaviors.  If you do not accept the beliefs/behavior/Values, you will not belong to a group of any kind, at least not for long.   However, to be accepted we comply with society/religion/country/groups by ways of our Values, Norms, and Beliefs.  We all need to belong.  Unfortunately, hate is a very easy sell.  Hate is the easy way out.  Being good is the hard way to live and be.  If someone goes against the group-think, that someone is not accepted within a group.  This is how good and hate grow.  All you need is the majority to be a good group or a bad group.  The majority rules and everybody else follows; otherwise, the groups split up and end up hating each other.  Hate wins again.. . The world is now fighting Terrorist.  Terrorist represent hate (commonly accepted belief in our society now).  Hate generates hate.  Fighting hate generates more hate.  To fight hate, we have to force our will (group-think) on others that will resist (the other group).  This also generates more hate.  Sometime, in order to win a war, we have to be or do more evil than the other to make the other comply with our group-think.  There is no end to this.. . Another way to look at this is:. We cannot have good without bad.  If there was no bad, then how would we know what is good?  People can spend a lifetime trying to solve this question and still not come up with a good answer.  I think this may be part of the grand design.. . We humans are at a time in our development that we are doing everything we can not to destroy each other.  The question you may want to ask is how can we get through this period in our development without destroying ourselves? But, the answer is just another example of Group-Think.  God will not take away our free will.. . To get through all this hate, we need to keep our opinions and ourselves under the radar and just survive.  Do not draw undue attention yourself.  Live a good life and maybe others will follow your example.  You cannot make someone do/like/love/hate anything they do not want to.  Maybe the answer is just be the example, and let everybody else make up their mind what is best for them.  We survived this long.  Maybe we will survive through all this hate.