Schnitzel (from the German Wiener Schnitzel, meaning veal fillet Viennese style) is one of the most famous traditional Austrian dishes. Possibly originating in Northern Italy (as cotoletta alla milanese), the recipe may have appeared in Vienna during the 15th or 16th century. According to another theory, it was introduced by Field Marshal Radetzky in 1857. The name "Wiener schnitzel" was coined in 1900.. . The schnitzel is prepared from a thinly-sliced piece of veal round, which is further tenderized by pounding with steak hammer, then successively dipped into wheat flour, eggs and breadcrumbs before being fried in clarified butter or lard. Sometimes the breadcrumbs are seasoned with freshly ground black pepper.. . Traditionally, Wiener schnitzel is served with potato salad and a lemon slice, but never with noodles. Roasted potatoes, french fries, rice or cranberry sauce are optional but considered bad cooking etiquette by purists. Unlike in Austria, it is served with gravy in Sweden. In Australia, schnitzel (often mispronounced "snitzel") has become a favourite "pub meal", usually made from beef or chicken rather than veal, and commonly served with gravy and chips (french fries) or as parmigiana topped with tomato sauce and cheese. In Israel, schnitzel (שניצל) refers to pounded chicken or turkey breasts, breaded or not. It is so popular as to be staple; ketchup and hummus are common condiments, while French fries and rice are common sides. Polish kotlet schabowy is similar, but lighter.. . Originally a festive dish—in the 17th and 18th centuries, sometimes gold dust was mixed into the breadcrumbs to provide an extra golden, luxurious colour—it has become one of the most popular meals among Austrians and is now enjoyed at all kinds of occasions. There are even Austrian fast food chains serving mostly schnitzels. Many restaurants offer cheaper schnitzels made from pork, and variants made of turkey have become popular more recently, but Austrian restaurant regulations require that "vom Schwein" (made of pork) or "von der Pute" (made of turkey) be indicated on the menu if no veal is used.. . Other variants of the Wiener schnitzel include:. . Cordon Bleu: "Blue Ribbon", two slices of meat filled with cheese and a slice of ham. . Jägerschnitzel: "Hunter´s Schnitzel", served with dark mushroom sauce. . Zigeunerschnitzel: "Gipsy´s Schnitzel", served with a sauce with pepper slices. . Rahmschnitzel: served with a sauce made of sour cream. . Hamburger Schnitzel: topped with a fried egg. . Chicken: Made of chicken, usually a cheaper alternative to others. . Turkey: Made of filet of turkey breast, very popular in Israel, often called the national dish. Many Israelis were of Viennese or German origin, but during the early years of the state, veal was unobtainable, and turkey proved an inexpensive and tasty substitute. . Vegetarian Schnitzel: Made of textured soy, tofu or seitan. The seasoning is in the breading so the consistency may differ slightly but the taste can be almost the same as that of a conventional Schnitzel.