The easiest way to convert H2 to H20 is through combustion.  This will be a slow process if you want to capture the exhaust and make useable water.  You need to condense the steam vapor that is created during combustion.   The simplest condenser is a coil of glass tubing in a container with ice water.  You could have a lit lame of hydrogen burning under a glass funnel which could direct the hotter combustion products to the tube condenser yeilding water at the output. . . If you are burning liguid H2, then you will need an evaporator or orifice to carry out the phase change to gas.  The problem is generating a flame an capturing the vapor.  In theory you need a large surface area, say stainless steel sheets, with ice water on one side and the combustion products in contact with the other side. Cool plates cause the phase change of the steam back into water.  . . The longer the path the hot gas has to travel the more chance it has to cool down.  Just realize that the burning hydrogen is in a gas phase, and you are wanting a liquid phase.  Therefore the cubic feet of hydrogen required to actually condense 1 gallon of water is quite large.  We are talking 100's of cubic feet.  To think of things in reasonable terms, if you want 1 pound of water, you need 2/10 pounds of hydrogen and 8/10 pounds of oxygen. I do not have a reference guide available for the cubic feet conversion.  . . To summarize, you need a slow, quiet flame, like a cast iron burner from an old house floor heater.  You would have to build your own orifice to run the correct mixture of gas and air.  Then you would need a very large container with a lot of surface area, with the ability to transfer the heat of condensation to another medium--either air or water.  The container must also be CLEAN, and be food-grade, otherwise bacteria would tend to grown in it after being used for a while.  Glass and stainless steel can make hygenic surfaces.  But long term use of the machine would require careful consideration of keeping it clean. If you fed the flame with pure oxygen (yeah quite expensive) you could keep the system totally clean and microbe free, or you would need a HEPA filter and a fan to supply combustion air to keep the normal bacteria in air from contaminating your system.  It is quite a project!  Too bad the heat isn't really used for anything.