You can start by reading the article "Starting a Janitorial and Cleaning Service Business" at http://www.powerhomebiz.com/vol95/janitorial.htm  The article contains information on startup strategies, operational considerations (prices, manpower, finding suppliers), and marketing the business. . . From the article, here are some tips:. . 1. The first step to marketing your business is deciding who your potential customers are and determining the types of services you could offer. . . 2. The best way to market this business is through cold calling. Drive through the area to look for newly opened businesses, buildings or facilities. Then introduce yourself to the landlords ­ your potential clients ­ and request for an opportunity to bid on their cleaning contract. For effective techniques on cold calling, read "Tips to Successful Cold Calling"  http://www.powerhomebiz.com/blog/2006/05/tips-to-successful-cold-calling.html. . 3. Draw up a better and more professional proposal by learning firsthand the needs of the potential customer, as well as the layout of the facility (e.g. type of carpeting, etc.). . 4. Networking is another effective strategy to get ahead in the janitorial business. Aside from newly opened buildings, get a list of companies that are downsizing or laying off cleaning staffs.. . 5. Word of mouth is another effective form of advertising a janitorial service. It can be generated through favorable feedback from your existing clients that will hopefully filter to other building owners or entrepreneurs in your area.. . 6. If you decide to embark on advertising, you can try placing an ad in newspapers or trade journals in your area. . . 7. You can also try direct mailing to potential customers, sending them information and brochures about your business.. . For detailed information I suggest you read the following books:. . - Janitorial Service Businesses : Strategies for Promoting, Estimating, and Bidding Cleaning Services . - The Janitorial Contractors Bible . - Introduction to Janitorial Service Contracting : How to Succeed in Your Own Cleaning Business . - Cleaning Up for a Living: Everything You Need to Know to Become a Successful Building Service Contractor . - Introduction to Janitorial Service Contracting : How to Succeed in Your Own Cleaning Business