i tend to dislike arabs, because i live in israel, and i see everything that they do- bombs, attacks, shootings, they don't keep any deals we make with them, they have outrageous and unfair demands, they turn the whole world against jews and israelis, they can be very hypocritical, and more. but i know that disliking a whole race because of a group of people isn't justified!!! but i can't help feeling that way... they've caused so much damage and wrecked millions of people's lives!! for example terror victims, people who were expelled from their homes, and more. do you know, that in an average terror attack there are different levels of injuries. say you take a victim of the lowest level of injury- for example, a 20 year old guy who is in "shock". he is deeply affected by it forever- he has traumas and nightmares (replays visions of what he saw), he needs therapy, every single thing he does in his life is different because of what he experienced- the near-death feeling, the gruesome sights and sounds, and more. his parents are deeply affected too- they worry about him- and everyone else- more, because they know what almost happened, they go out of their way to help him recover as much as possible... their other kids, lets say they're teenagers, are traumatized and afraid. they go to school and tell their friends about what happened, how close their brother was to dying... their friends go home and tell their parents, etc... and whenever any kids from that school think about terror, they'll remember this story, the story that they're so connected and close too... . and it goes on and on. the circle and waves of people affected is never ending. therefore, the result is that every single person in the country has been personally affected by terror in many different ways!! it may seem very far-fetched- that a person in your school's brother was there during the attack- but it's really not far at all. everyones connected and affected. so thats why i tend to dislike arabs. . . oh, and to the girl who says she can't stand when people speak spanish in america: your tolerance level is dangerously low. and the attitude you have towards spanish speakers is disgusting and not justifiable. do you have any idea how hard it is to pick up and move to a different country??? do you have any idea how hard it is to learn a new language?!? its extremely hard!!! if you went to a spanish country, would you not speak english to any american you met?!? of course you would- its more natural for you, its your mother-tongue and its your heritage!! so whats wrong with people doing that in america?!? . take it from me: i had to learn hebrew when i moved to israel, and it was challenging. and i always speak to other americans in english- its our common ground, and its more comfortable!! do you know how it feels when people tell us to stop speaking english, to go back to america?!? its extremely hutrful- especially after all the hardships we had to endure!! so think about it from the other point of view! put yourself in their shoes, and see how you'd like it...