you can get a prescription for zovirax to take at the 1st sign of cold sores I use carmex to keep them from drying out if I use it right away it keeps it from getting worse I also wash the area with anti bacterial soap as soon as it starts and that helps also valtrex though kind of new is supposed to work if used right off here's info. VALTREX is a one-day oral treatment proven to speed the healing and shorten the pain and discomfort of cold sores.  . Not only can cold sores cause pain and discomfort for several days, they’re so noticeable, they can be embarrassing too. Although living with cold sores can be a hassle, treating them doesn’t have to be. Remember, they are caused by a virus and are considered a medical condition—your healthcare provider can help. . . VALTREX is a prescription antiviral medicine that targets the herpes virus. It is a one-day oral treatment proven to speed the healing and shorten the pain and discomfort of cold sores. VALTREX Caplets attack the cold sore from within. When the herpes virus tries to reproduce and spread to other cells in the body, VALTREX stops or slows the reproduction of the active virus. . . If your healthcare provider prescribes VALTREX, you’ll want to have it on hand. That way, you can fight the herpes virus at the first sign of a cold sore. So don’t wait until your next cold sore to talk to your healthcare provider – have a discussion today. Then, when your next cold sore hits, you’ll be prepared to attack it. . . Dosing for VALTREX for Cold Sores. The recommended dose for VALTREX is 2 grams taken at the first sign of a cold sore, and then again about 12 hours later. It’s important to start treatment with VALTREX at the first sign of a cold sore (such as tingling, itching, or burning). There are no studies that show if VALTREX works when used after the appearance of a cold sore. But be sure to follow your healthcare provider’s specific instructions. When treating cold sores with VALTREX, you should not take it for more than one day. .  . Cold sores are caused by Herpes Simplex Virus I. They first appear 3 - 10 days after exposure and can last up to three weeks. The virus then remains in the body forever and repeated outbreaks are triggered by several factors. . . These factors include: a fever or cold, exposure to the sun, stress, severe fatigue, or suppression of the immune system. These blisters are very contagious. You can even spread them to yourself. Be careful when washing your face when you have an outbreak. Never use the towel you dried your face with on another part of your body. . . FACT: 85 - 90% of all Americans have the cold sore virus. And 55 million have recurrent symptoms, so you are not alone if you get them.. . The first sign of a developing cold sore is often a tingling or itchy sensation. A small bump will develop, then it will turn into a blister. There may be inflammation in the area and fluid and or pus may ooze from the blister or blisters. Some people get flu-like symptoms and fever just from a cold sore outbreak. There is usually less discomfort with recurrence of cold sores than with the initial outbreak.. . There are several good over-the-counter topical creams to use on cold sores like Blistex and Carmex, but they will not prevent sores. Ask your health care provider about the prescription acyclovir (Zovirax) for the treatment and prevention of Herpes Simplex I.