Various meats Cold Meat SaladMeat, in its broadest definition, is animal tissue used as food. Most often it refers to skeletal muscle and associated fat, but it may also refer to non-muscle organs, including lungs, livers, skin, brains, bone marrow, and kidneys. The word meat is also used by the meat packing and butchering industry in a more restrictive sense - the flesh of mammalian species (pigs, cattle, etc.) raised and butchered for human consumption, to the exclusion of seafood, fish, poultry, game, and insects. Eggs are rarely referred to as meat even though they consist of animal tissue. Animals that consume only meat are carnivores.. . The meat packing industry handles the slaughtering, processing and distribution of many meats for human consumption in most developed countries.. . . Look up meat in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.The word meat comes from the Old English word mete, which referred to food in general. Mad in Danish, and mat in Swedish and Norwegian, still mean food today. The narrower sense referring exclusively to animal flesh developed over the past few hundred years. Until recently, meat continued to often be used to refer to any food of a "meaty" consistency—the meat of an artichoke, for example. This usage is mostly forgotten today, but the word can still be used to imply reference to the most essential or substantial part of something (e.g., "the real meat of the government's policies...").. . Meat also shares some of the sexual connotations that flesh carries, and can be used to refer to the human body, often in a way that is considered vulgar or demeaning, as in the phrase meat market, which, in addition to simply denoting a market where meat is sold, can also be a slang phrase referring to a place or situation where humans are treated or viewed as commodities, especially a place where one looks for a casual sexual encounter. This sexual connotation has also existed for at least 500 years.. . . [edit] Methods of preparation.  Butchers selling meat in Morocco.Meat is prepared in many ways, as steaks, in stews, fondue or as dried meat. It may be ground then formed into patties (as burgers or croquettes), loaves, or sausages, or used in loose form (as in "sloppy joe" or Bolognese sauce). Some meats are cured, by smoking, pickling, preserving in salt or brine (see salted meat and curing). Others are marinated and barbecued, or simply boiled, roasted, or fried. Meat is generally eaten cooked, but there are many traditional recipes that call for raw beef, chicken or fish. Meat is often spiced or seasoned, as in most sausages. Meat dishes are usually described by their source (animal and part of body) and method of preparation.. . Meat is a typical base for making sandwiches. Popular sandwich meats include turkey, chicken, ham, pork, bacon, salami and other sausages, and beef, such as steak, roast beef, corned beef, and pastrami. Meat can also be molded or pressed (common for products that include offal, such as haggis and scrapple) and canned.. . . [edit] Nutritional benefits & concerns. Further information: Nutrition and Foodborne illness . All muscle tissue is very high in protein, containing all of the essential amino acids. Muscle tissue is very low in carbohydrates. The fat content of meat can vary widely depending on the species and breed of animal, the anatomical part of its body, and the methods of butchering and cooking. Wild animals such as deer are typically leaner than farm animals, leading to the increasing popularity of game such as venison; however, centuries of breeding meat animals for size and fatness is being reversed by consumer demand for meat with less fat. Animal fat is relatively high in saturated fat and cholesterol, which have been linked to various health problems, including heart disease and arteriosclerosis.. . Typical Meat Nutritional Content. from 110 grams (4 oz) Source calories protein carbs fat . fish 110–140 20–25 g 0 g 1–5 g 