Canker sores are a common form of mouth ulcer. They occur in women more often than men. They may occur at any age, but usually first appear between the ages of 10 and 40.. . Canker sores usually appear on the inner surface of the cheeks and lips, tongue, soft palate, and the base of the gums.. . They usually begin with a tingling or burning sensation, followed by a red spot or bump that ulcerates. Pain decreases in 7 to 10 days, with complete healing in 1 to 3 weeks. Particularly large ulcers (greater than 1 cm in diameter) often take longer to heal (2 to 4 weeks). Occasionally, a severe occurrence may be accompanied by nonspecific symptoms of illness, such as fever or malaise. Canker sores often come back again in the future.. . There may be an inherited tendency to develop canker sores, as they often run in families. There may also be an immune system link. Ulcers may develop in response to a mouth injury such as dental procedures or aggressive tooth cleaning.. . Canker sores may also occur at the site of a bite when the tongue or cheek is bitten. They can be triggered by emotional stress, dietary deficiencies (especially iron, folic acid, or Vitamin B-12), menstrual periods, hormonal changes, food allergies, and similar situations. They occur most commonly with viral infections. They may occur with no identifiable cause.. A burning or tingling sensation before other symptoms develop (warning symptom) . Skin lesion on mucous membranes of the mouth . Begins as a red spot or bump . Then develops into an open ulcer . Usually small, 1-2 mm to 1 cm . Occasionally larger than 1 cm . Single or clusters, often appears in groups (crops) . Painful . Center appears white or yellow with fibrous texture . Halo border is bright red (a red halo may not always be present) . May have gray membrane just prior to healing . Less common symptoms, which may appear at the time of the canker but may or may not be related, include: . Fever . General discomfort or uneasiness (malaise) . Swollen lymph nodes . A diagnosis is based on the distinctive appearance of the lesion. If canker sores persist or continue to return, a health care provider or dentist should be consulted to rule out other causes of mouth ulcers. (These include erythema multiforme, drug allergies, herpes infection, pemphigus, pemphigoid, bullous lichen planus, and other disorders.). Squamous cell carcinoma may first appear as a mouth ulcer that does not heal, but this is rare. A relatively new ulcer-like condition is hairy leukoplakia, a condition that occurs with HIV infection and may be mistaken for the common canker.. . A skin lesion biopsy may be used to differentiate a canker sore from other causes of mouth ulcers.. . Treatment is usually not necessary. In most cases, the canker sores go away by themselves.. . Severe mouth ulcers (larger than 1 cm or lasting longer than 2 weeks) may require evaluation and treatment. In these cases, topical or oral (by mouth) tetracycline suspension may be given, with instructions to hold it in the mouth for 2-5 minutes before swallowing.. . Tetracycline is usually not prescribed for children until after all the permanent teeth have fully developed. If children use tetracycline suspension before their permanent teeth are fully developed, it can permanently discolor teeth that are still forming. Multiple, painful mouth ulcers may treated with an antiviral agent such as acyclovir.. . Topical or oral corticosteroids are rarely used, but they may reduce inflammation. Dexamethasone suspension may be given with instructions to rinse the mouth and spit it out; or dexamethasone, prednisone, or other corticosteroid may be given systemically (in a pill or injection, for example).. . Avoid hot or spicy foods to minimize discomfort. Mild mouth washes such as salt water or over-the-counter mouth washes may help. Over-the-counter topical medications (applied to a specific area of the mouth) may reduce discomfort and soothe the ulcerated area.. . To prevent bac