"The innate immune system is the more ancient of the two systems, with roots deep in the deuterostome branch of the bilaterians, roughly one billion years ago.  Conversely, the adaptive immune system appeared more recently and quite suddenly, around 450 million years ago with the emergence of the gnathostomes, more commonly called the jawed vertebrates.  Because of its high degree of complexity and interconnectivity, the mammalian immune system has been labeled as "irreducibly complex", and its evolution and origin through "Darwinian" mechanisms challenged.. . Michael Behe has challenged that because of the nature of IC, biochemical systems that possess this quality could not have evolved through random mutation and natural selection, or "blind-watchmaking".  Essentially, Behe is using IC to disprove evolution.  As an alternative, Behe suggests that the only way that IC biochemical systems could have originated is through intelligent intervention.  He offers as evidence the fact that all IC systems whose origins are known were designed by intelligent agents, us. . . There are many problems with Behe's argument.  Basically, Behe is saying that because we do not know how an IC system could have evolved, it didn't evolve.  This type of argumentation is referred to as an argument from ignorance.  The problem with arguments from ignorance is that they make a conclusion based on a lack of knowledge.. . Behe outlines three IC biochemical systems in the immune system; clonal selection, V(D)J recombination, and the complement cascade.  However, in his analysis of each of these systems, Behe makes critical mistakes.  For the process of clonal selection, Behe targets the antibody molecules, which have the ability to rearrange their genes, and to switch from a membrane-bound form to a secreted form.  Behe assumes that an antibody molecule missing one of these features would be useless.  However, there are many examples of proteins that do not undergo rearrangement, but are able to switch forms.  Additionally, there is a gene closely related to antibodies which can also undergo rearrangement, but does not switch forms.  Behe neglects to mention either of these intermediate-like molecules.  Instead, he scrutinizes the process of antibody gene rearrangement as the second IC system.  He describes the numerous features of this system and claims there is no pathway through which it could have evolved.  However, he assumes that the only selectable function for the genes involved in rearrangement is rearrangement.  There are well-studied systems that bear remarkable similarity to V(D)J recombination that have nothing to do with immunity.  He fails to recognize the existence of these other systems, nor realizes that most of the components of recombination are already present there.  Finally, in his description of the third IC system, Behe mistakenly assigns a single function to the complement pathway.  He fails to realize that the complement system has several different functions, and several mechanisms of activation.  This would allow for a gradual, stepwise accumulation of parts and functions.  In fact, many other groups of organisms possess a complement system that lacks his primary function.  According to Behe's definition of irreducible complexity, those systems shouldn't exist.". . Full article at source below.