I have my destiny under absolute control... what about you(;-). . . Destiny: Do you as a Human Being feel your destiny is controlled by Cosmic hands? What you shall get in future shall not be of your making but cause of a supernatural happening else where!!. . No doubt sometimes you gets results of your Karma immediately and feel the strings of your future are in your hands but, when you watch people with pious background getting tormented and put to miserable ends ... you think twice! Who is the Controller of the rewards and what are his standards of his judgment!!! Does he always judge people with an unbiased attitude or are there favors and displeasure’s to be shown. . . You wonder and get lost in the perennial Query disturbing all ... never able to get a reasonable answer from within. Will the correct answer evade you for ever? What is the measure of intelligence ... When shall the truth dawn upon you!!. . Some people say ... All answers can be found in Bhagavad Gita and the Upanishads! How shall I understand the Bhagavad Gita! Who shall explain it to me in a dialect I can understand! It seems to be so complex that even the so called Pundits do not seem to know the correct purport of it ... What then!!!. . . Sanjay is a middle aged businessmen. By Grace of God he seems to have learned the hidden truth? He is always cheerful and never gets affected even by the death of any. Be there a gain or loss, he is ever so cheerful ... It seems he is a Cosmic being on a Cosmic journey and Life on Mother Earth is but a small sojourn for him. He seems to have a grip on his destiny ... That is what he all the time feels. . . He says he can be very rich but to what use! We came empty handed and shall return empty handed ... What use of amassing wealth by orderly or dishonest means. Whatever is necessary to live a healthy and balanced Life he is able to do that much. Rest of the time he spends contemplating on God. He says "Till the time we do not know "Brahma Vidya" we feel a void in ourselves, as if we are two bodies cast in one but once you learn of the cosmic truth, your ‘I’ is gone and you are but pure consciousness".. . According to him, every soul takes a body on Mother Earth to continue its Cosmic journey and in that it prompts the body to do what is just and right (through dreams only!). Only then it shall enhance itself to the higher planes of mental achievement for, lies the "Brahm Vidya" on the highest plane of Mind power. By control of Mind power & acquiring Brahma Vidya says Sanjay "Destiny is 100% under his control".. . Why should we all follow the path taken by Sanjay. If sanjay feels so it may be his personal case. The same may not be applicable to others!! He may be also wrong somewhere. Let us seriously try to understand what is destiny?. . . Let us measure all the achievements of a Human Being on a -100 - 0 - +100 scale. On -100 resides Satan and +100 denotes the Power of God. 0 is the level above which is born a Human Being and below which one gets the body of an insect, tree or an animal..  . . You are born in a family of a Brahmin priest on a starting scale of +42! Presume you get -4 points for committing a murder. Now, if you fall in bad company & become a dacoit and commit 11 murders in this Life ... What you expect to get but animal form at -2 in your next manifestation!! If you committed 2 murders and simultaneously earned +2 by your pious deeds then also you may be born in a lower caste family at -36 (considering that +40 is the lowest plane to be born a Brahmin).. . . Does this mean that one born in a lower caste family can not attain the status of godhood by realizing self in that very Life. It is not impossible but may be extremely difficult to attain Brahma Vidya in a single Life span as the amount of prayaschita (atonement required to wash out accumulated sins) required may be so huge that one may buckle under the pressure.. . Is it difficult for an average Huma