From answers.com:. . Directory > Words > Dictionary. free will. n.. .    1. The ability or discretion to choose; free choice: chose to remain behind of my own free will..    2. The power of making free choices that are unconstrained by external circumstances or by an agency such as fate or divine will.. . [Middle English fre wil, translation of Late Latin līberum arbitrium : Latin līberum, neuter of līber, free + Latin arbitrium, will.]. . Wills. Free Legal Information & Resources on Estate Laws & Lawyers.. www.FindLaw.com. Free Will. Looking to find wills? Browse our wills directory.. WillsSearch.com. Back to Top Antonyms. Directory > Reference > Antonyms. free will. n. . Definition: person's full intent and purpose. Antonyms: responsibility. Free Legal Forms Here. Need legal forms? Access 1000s of legal forms now. 100% Free.. FreeLawLibrary.us. Free Will. Questia. Faster, Easier Research Books, Journals and Articles Online. www.Questia.com. Back to Top Encyclopedia. Directory > Reference > Encyclopedia. free will, in philosophy, the doctrine that an individual, regardless of forces external to him, can and does choose at least some of his actions. The existence of free will is challenged by determinism. A denial of free will was implicit in Plato's argument that, because no one would deliberately choose a worse over a better course of action, people's decisions are determined by their understanding (or ignorance) of what constitutes the good. Aristotle disagreed; he distinguished between reason and desire, pointing out that people sometimes do what they desire even when they know it will harm themselves or others. Some Stoics sought to adapt the idea of free will to their rigorous form of determinism; Chrysippus emphasized that action could be produced by choice which itself had antecedent causes. In the Christian philosophical tradition a central question regarding freedom of the will was this: is virtue within the power of the individual or completely dependent on the power of God? St. Augustine, although he argued that God's foreknowledge of human actions (a consequence of his omniscience) did not cause them, did hold that God's omnipotent providence implied predestination: man was wholly dependent on divine grace. St. Thomas Aquinas maintained the freedom of man's will in spite of divine omnipotence, holding that God's omnipotence meant he could do all things possible or consistent with his goodness and reason, which did not include the predetermination of human will. William of Occam affirmed free will but claimed it impossible for any human to comprehend how it is compatible with God's foreknowledge and omniscience, which cannot be distinguished from his role as prime mover and original cause. Martin Luther and John Calvin both followed Augustine's doctrine of predestination, but later Protestant writers disputed their position. Advocates of free will have usually begun with the overwhelming testimony of common practice and common sense: people do believe they in some way determine their actions, and hold each other accountable for them. Therefore advocates of free will have argued that the human will, unlike inanimate things, can initiate its own activity.. . Will & Testament Guide. Estate, Wills and Probates. Layman's Guide to Wills.. FuneralPlanning101.com. Giving Away Free Stuff. Free Samples From Top Brands! Simply Point, Select, and Receive.. www.1FreeStuffPlace.com. Back to Top Literature. Directory > Arts > Literature. free will. . The ability to choose, think, and act voluntarily. For many philosophers, to believe in free will is to believe that human beings can be the authors of their own actions and to reject the idea that human actions are determined by external conditions or fate. (See determinism, fatalism, and predestination.). Free Will. We've Found the Best 4 Sites About Free Will. Best7Sites.com. Download Free Will. Free Free Will 