Nisi:  Here you ask a vital question, the answer will perhaps surprise you.   WHen I was a Christian, I too, found that I would "slip up" using your jargon.  I would slip up with lies...with stealing, with commiting adultery, with blasphemy and with idolatry, and of course just a little bit of coveting...oh, sorry, forgot about disrespecting my parents...in fact, I hated my father.  BUT that was ok, according to my Christian preachers,  who said, that Jesus had died for my sins and that the consequences were all piled on him.  In other words..it was ok, as long as I repented.  .    Thats a problem however, because repentance as preached by Christianity, means  to stop sinning.  ANd of course, as you probably know by now, no one can stop sinning, least of all Christians.  WHy is that?  Because its a doctrine or teaching quite contrary to the Original Source Text...the Hebrew Bible..    In the OT (Original Text), repentance doesnt mean stop sinning, it means, to Return to GOD.  It certainly entails acknowledging that one has sinned, broken a particular command, or all of them for that matter, but one can not stop sinning or breaking the lessor commands if one continues to break the First command, ie, Thou shall have NO other GOD in my Face (more literal translation).  In other words,  GOD the Creator, says HE IS THE ONLY GOD< and to postulate a another god, particularly a man god,like Jesus, who didnt become god until the third Century CE at the Church Council of Nicea promoted him by a Vote of the prelates, bishops and RC leaders.     In any case,  if we dont get our act together concerning the FIRST COMMAND< its not likely that we will do very well with the remaining six Noachide laws, (those which pertain to Non Jews), or if Jewish heritage, that we will do very well with any of the 613 other laws, some of which pertain to today and some await the restoration of the Temple and Messiah coming.  Yeppers, you guessed it.  I too repented and repented to no avail, until I returned to GOD and rejected Christian idolatry.   Thank GOD His mercy still avails to those that return to HIM in sincere humility.