Many dim sum restaurants push some trolleys around, that is a good way to pick what you like, but sometimes good stuff doesn't look good and the not so good stuff looks brill... . but in case its a waiter that takes the order, heres a few basics..... . "Har gau"= Prawn and bambooshoot dumpling with white outer layer. savoury but also a popular dim sum. . "Siu Mai"- minced pork with a yellow outer wrapping, the outer layer is also known as wonton wrapping. sometimes has chinese shittake mushrooms in.These are savory yet a classic,on par with the 'Har gau'. . "Lor bak go"- chinese form of carrot cake. but it is made od 'muli' a type of carrot that is white and usually bigger than the average sixed carrot. this also has chinese sausage like the italian pepperoni, but not spicy nor pungent, just a sweet and savory aroma. sometimes it also has spring onion and maybe some dried shrimps. this ia cut into squares and shallow fried until crispy round the edges. tastes savory, as with the ingredients and the texture is soft on the inside, crispy on the outside. must try, but subject to taste i sguess.. . "Char Siu Bao" (steamed buns). a traditional steamed bun with a white outer layer and chinese roast pork cooked in a slightly sweet barbeque sauce as the filling. once freshly steamed, the fluffiness of the bum is unforgettable and the flavour lasts right to the end.. . "Cheung fan" (steamed rice flour rolls). This is also a popular dish in which many types are available. Usually, beef, king prawn, char siu, plain or vegetable. well the basic part is the rice flour when it is steamed, it looks like a white sheet this is used to wrap the fillings that you order ie beef. then this is served with some sweetened soya sauce which makes it all the more tasty.the plain one will be served with a sweetened hoi sin sauce, as original hoi sin sauce will be too pungent for the delicate texture of the 'cheung fan'. . 'Har gok' (deep fried prawn dumplings). These are minced prawn wrapped in wonton sheets(the yellow ones used for 'siu mai' and deep fried. these are served with salad cream and the crispy outer layer really makes your mouth water with the salad gream. there are many different styles conjured from this recipe, some involve using strips of seaweed instead of wonton sheets and deep fried in a little batter like a japanese tempura(light batter) . . Spring rolls. A favourite to westerners, there are of course a few different types of spring rolls. traditional ones, which many of you will have seen, will be the crispy rolls, in which they have a wide range of fillings, the other type are steamed and are commonly known as "seen juk guen" where the pork and prawn (minced) is wrapped in layers of soyabean sheets and steamed with a lightly cooked oyster sauce. these are savory and don't require any diffing sauce, if if you wish, worcestshire sauce is a fine fancy.. . Well here are the basics and just a few of the SOOO many types of dimsum. if ever in doubt, ask them what things are and they will usually be more than happy to help.. Chinese dim sum is sometimes known to be both WIERD and WONDERFUL, but don't be afraid to try it and don't be put off with what other types of chinese delicacy!