There isn't. There are only two copies when the cell is preparing for division so that it can split its genes between its daugter cells.. . I think the problem here is the ambiguity of the question. do you mean that there are two alleles? because there are two alleles for every gene. This is what makes genetic and phenotypic predictions possible, for instance with a punnet square. There are two alleles for every gene in any cell which is the product of sexual reproduction: the combination of two gamete (haploid) cells to create a diploid cell. This does not occur in mitosis (asexual reproduction) though. There are two alleles because one is inherited from each parent cell.. . PS: Ignore the below poster. I address the issue of alleles in my answer. It is not genes though which there are two of, it is the alleles for each gene. One set is inherited from each parent (As I have already stated). However, this is not a backup in case one fails. There are dominant and recessive alleles. If the individual has one dominant allele from one parent and a recessive allele from the other, the dominant allele will be displayed. The terms gene and allele are commonly misused and people will say "the dominant gene" or something of that sort, but they are alleles for a gene, not the gene itself. The person below me especially cannot say that one set of genes is used as a backup because that is just not how genetics works and anyone who knows anything about it would know that. If one was used as a back up, there would be far less genetic disease or cancers if that was the case. Also, that would not explain why people inherit such dominant traits just as the neurodegenerative disorder Huntington's Disease. Wouldnt that "gene" (really allele) be considered a "failure"? It causes a 100% fatal disease, but it is carried as a dominant trait, thus, if a person inherits one dominant allele and one recessive (normal) allele, they will still get the disease. The other allele doesnt act as a backup at all.