First, when you say protestants, I think you probably mean evangelicals.  Your average protestant doesn't go door to door.  . . The common themes amongst the three religions that you mentioned (radical or devout evangelists replacing "Protestant Christians") are as follows:. (1) They are all relatively young, though well established religions or sects; and. (2) They emphasize that their religion is the only way to salvation and they feel that it is their duty to both save souls and expand their religion.. . These religious groups are also much more zealous in their beliefs than most other sects of christianity, and are therefore more focused on their religion, and more driven to expand it.. . In the case of Mormons, every Mormon man is expected to go on a two-year "mission" around the age of 19.  That mission is to espouse the religious beliefs of the Mormon Church and to convert non-believers.  Mormon women also go on missions, though some start families before they are able to do so.. . As for Evangelists, they are very zealous in their beliefs and they tend to emphasize a "close, personal relationship with Christ."  They therefore urge others, even those who share most of the same beliefs, to be "reborn," hence the term born-again Christians.  Other sects of evangelical christians believe in the "Rapture," when God will supposedly elevate all believers (read "all good Evangelists) directly to heaven.  The Rapture is believed to occur at the end of the world, and is God's method of saving his beloved children before the coming Armageddon.. . Finally, Jehovah's Witnesses believe that there are only a finite number of spots in heaven.  It therefore seems almost counter-intuitive for them to try to convert others, as that would lessen their chances of entering heaven, but their religion heavily emphasizes conversion.  They are a very conservative religious group, abstaining from celebrations of birthdays and even religious holidays, and they probably think that such celebration and other forms of hedonism are an affront to their beliefs.  Thus, if they could convert more people, they could reduce the amount of hedonism and debauchery in the world.