Because for whatever reason, President Bush decided that going to war in Iraq would kill three birds with one stone: it would spread democracy, avenge his father by capturing Saddam Hussien, and hopefully catch some terroists in the process.. . Hussien was notorious for killing, torturing, raping, opressing, etc his people.  Many people always thought that SOMEONE should do something about it, and our President decided that the US is that someone.. . An example of the atrocities:  Saddam Hussien was angry that Iraq was never winning any Olympic events, so he would torture his country's athletes.  In addition to over-the-top intense physical training, he would have the athletes whipped and cut with razors.  Then, he would have them crawl through sewer water.  To this day, they have still not won.  (Full story on that posted as the first link under "Sources").. . If you're not familiar, which many people aren't, in the early 1990s, the US was involved in a conflict called the Gulf War.  During this war, President Bush, Sr. was sending American troops to support a United Nations mission which was attempting to free Iraq from Hussien's dictatorship.  We ended up just leaving, with only some of our many missions and goals accomplished.  Pres Bush Jr (our current president) wanted to go in there and really get him out since Daddy couldn't.  (Please see link #2 for more info about the Gulf War).. . Also, there is the Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) scandal.  Did he have WMDs?  Maybe.  If he did have them, would he use them on the US?  Most likely.  Was this a legitimate reason to go to war, or just an excuse?  Hard to say.  (See link #3 in Sources for more info about the CIA information that lead key political figures to believe that Iraq may have WMDs.). . However, this war does seem to be a bit misplaced when it comes to capturing terrorists.  More likely hiding places include Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, etc.  Many people do say that there is evidence that Iraq was harboring terrorists though.  In other words, people who were connected with terrorist organizations and plots were not forced to leave the country, they were instead welcomed and given a home.  (See link #4 in Sources for statistics on people who believe that Iraq is harboring terrorists and why they believe this.). . I hope that answers any questions you may have.  Just let me clarify that I am not saying whether I believe that it is right or wrong, just giving some reasons for it.  And you know what, the more I think about it, the more reasons I can think of, so I am gonna stop there.