No, korngoddess1027 (at the top) doesn't have it at all. Neither does redglory, below. So many people confuse atheism with nihilism, and agnosticism with deism; it's astounding! Emma, spamandham (minus the first comment), memento mori, Bud, and Johan F have it the closest. Liet Kynes has a really good answer, too.. . Atheists believe God does not exist. It's the opposite of being a theist (one who believes God exists). Generally speaking, atheists do not believe in the Supernatural at all. They believe gods, angels, devils, ghosts, spirits, and the like are fictional entities made up by men to explain natural phenomena they could not otherwise explain.. . Agnostics believe that God may or may not exist, but that you cannot prove whether or not he exists, nor can you attribute any characteristics to him, including "goodness", "omnipotence", "omniscience" or anything else. In practice, agnostics may follow a religion even though they doubt it is "true" or even provable simply because that is the way they were raised, or because they think people behave better if they accept some sort of religion, even if it's based on a non-truth. Or they may shun religion altogether, deciding that the evidence of God's existence offered by existing religions is no more compelling than purely philosophical proofs are.. . Deists, on the other hand, are people who believe in God as the Creator of the universe, but they don't believe any particular religion has an exclusive understanding of that god. Deists also tend to believe in a "clockwork universe" that was created by some entity we label as "God" but which he/it no longer tends to and which continues in accordance with the physical laws that entity established at its creation. In other words, for deists, God is a "hands-off" creator whom we cannot describe or know. Several of our founding fathers (including Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin) were deists. The concept of "Nature's God" as written in the Declaration of Independence is a deist notion, as well. A lot of people confuse deists and agnostics, incidentally.. . Incidentally, It is not true, as redglory below erroneously states, that atheists believe in nothing "besides themselves". Atheism is not a form of nihilism (nihilism = belief in nothing), nor is it a form of Satanism. In fact, many atheists, and also agnostics and deists, are humanists who believe that human life has value in and of itself and that our purpose in life is not to glorify a deity or show favor to his followers while oppressing or discriminating against others but to embrace humanity as a whole. Humanism is not about selfishness; it's about admitting that we as humans share in a common destiny and that no "god" is going to intervene to fix things, so we have to help each other ourselves.. . Incidentally, I'm a humanist. I also tend towards deism and agnosticism. Sometimes I lean more towards atheism, however, especially on those days when it seems like the world's religions bring more harm to the world than good. I have many atheistic, agnostic, and deistic friends, all of whom I find to be very caring, open, altruistic people, in spite of the fact that they may not be convinced of the existence of any god.