well, dog is "Depend on God", like Frog is "Fully rely on God" ;). . here's a diddy which might be amusing while the choice answer is selected:. . Subject: The Origin of Pets, aka: Where do pets come from?. . A newly discovered chapter in the Book of Genesis has provided the answer to "Where do pets come from?". . Adam and Eve said, "Lord, when we were in the garden, you walked with us every day. Now we do not see you any more. We are lonesome here, and it is difficult for us to remember how much you love us.". . And God said,  I will create a companion for you that will be with you and who will be a reflection of my love for you, so that you will love me even when you cannot see me. Regardless of how selfish or childish or unlovable you may be, this new companion will accept you as you are and will love you as I do, in spite of yourselves.". . And God created a new animal to be a companion for Adam and Eve.. . And it was a good animal.. . And God was pleased.. . And the new animal was pleased to be with Adam and Eve and he wagged his tail.. . And Adam said, "Lord, I have already named all the animals in the Kingdom and I cannot think of a name for this new animal.". . And God said, " I have created this new animal to be a reflection of my love for you, his name will be a reflection of my own name, and you will call him DOG.". . And Dog lived with Adam and Eve and was a companion to them and loved . them.. . And they were comforted.. . And God was pleased.. . And Dog was content and wagged his tail.. . After a while, it came to pass that an angel came to the Lord and said, "Lord, Adam and Eve have become filled with pride. They strut and preen like peacocks and they believe they are worthy of adoration. Dog has indeed taught them that they are loved, but perhaps too well.". . And God said, I will create for them a companion who will be with them and who will see them as they are. The companion will remind them of their limitations, so they will know that they are not always worthy of adoration.". And God created CAT to be a companion to Adam and Eve.. . And Cat would not obey them. And when Adam and Eve gazed into Cat's eyes, they were reminded that they were not the supreme beings.. . And Adam and Eve learned humility. And they were greatly improved.. And God was pleased. And Dog was happy.. And Cat didn't care, one way or the other.. . So, "dog" is a *reflection* of "God"'s love :). . on a more serious note:. god is a generic term just as dog is a generic term... diety and canine, both refer to their similiar "title". those who have a personal pet dog, most likely have a "name" for their dog, and it comes to them by that name, and (perhaps) any other name the owner's voice calls it by. "god" is a diety, "God" might be a personal diety. Jesus is the Lord who I follow,. Father God (aka, Abba, Jehovah, Elohim, Jehovah Raffa, Jehovah Shalom, Jehovah Nissi, Jehovah Jira,... see other hebrew names for Abba) is the one Jesus called Father, so He's my Heavenly Father too, and The Holy Spirit is the comforter Jesus promised would come after Him.. He comes to me, because I came to Him, when the Holy Spirit woo'd me, i responded.. . other people have their dieties for their reasons, I choose Jesus, the Father, and the Holy Spirit, because of their profound evidence in my life.. . Heck is for people who don't follow Gosh.