PEOPLE DON’T KNOW THE HISTORY. Many don’t even know that what’s called “Palestine” now has not been an Arab country for most of its history. That it has been ruled and inhabited by a number of different nations, tribes and religions, and that Jews have by far the longest connection with that land.. This may be clear to the Israelis, but it i not clear to the world population at large: Therefore . Israelis must use every avenue possible avenue, especially the UN, to reputedly present the Israeli Jewish view of the problem. They must have  the courage to stand up in the UN against all the anti-Israeli and anti-Jewish prejudice there.. Very few people in the world realize that there have been as many Jewish refugees from Arab countries as there were Palestinian refugees from Israel. Somehow the Jewish refugees in Israel are doing Ok, but the Arab refugees in Arab countries still live in refugee camps and are not even citizens there. So people who blame Israel for the misery of the Palestinians are misinformed. . They don’t realize that if the Arab countries accepted the refugees and allowed them to become citizens there, there would be no refugee problem, and no war. The Palestinian Arabs were identical to the neighboring Arabs. . People are also unaware that over than of half of the “Palestinians” are descendants of non-Palestinian Arabs, who came to Palestine in early 20th century because of the Jewish immigration there created job opportunities, and then additional large number of “Palestinians” were surrounding Arabs who infiltrated the refugee camps in order to live of the international support.. . Israel is being accused for changing it’s borders through war, and yet, 99% of these some people wherever they live, in whichever country, live within borders created by wars!. . Also most people think are not aware of other recent cases of population exchange on much larger scale than between Israelis and Arabs: for example some 15 million Germans have been re-settled from Poland and Czechoslovakia after WWII. Yet, there is no refugee problem, no right to return. etc.. . Finally and most importantly Jews while Arabs and Muslims have plenty of places where they can be at home with the people of their own nationality, culture, language and religion. Jews do not have any other place. On the contrary, Jews have lived as persecuted minority ever since destruction of Judea by Romans, and have been butchered and persecuted by both Christians and Muslims. It is high time that at least the Christians acknowledge their history of inhuman treatment of the Jews and take responsibly for that by assist Jews in having their own county.