There is much speculation regarding the orbital motion of the planets and how it is achieved. Scientists state planetary motion was initiated at the dawn of this solar system, but the true principals of planetary motion will be introduced. Newton once stated, that an object in motion stays in motion, unless it is acted upon an outside force. Gravity, which emanates from the Sun, is that outside force in relation to the orbiting planets. Changing what would be a straight tangential path of the planets to point 90 degrees relative to the closest radius of the Sun into an elliptical path due to outside gravitational influences. According to the present day laws of motion, when a force is applied to an object that changes its direction from straight motion to one that is curved, forward momentum slows on the affected object, causing erosion of the orbital path, thus plunging into the gravitational giant of this solar system, the Sun.. Astronomer also never considered that the mass of the Sun slowly eroded due to energy conversion. This solar mass problem eventually over time would allow the planets fly off into space as the holding force gravity diminished over time. So what propels the planet’s constant orbits? Inside our Sun’s core, movement of matter is initiated by pressure and gravitational inequalities trying to find equilibrium due to attractive or repulsive forces in the galaxy. The motion becomes circular in the as the mass is attracted to the core with each motion reinforcing each other. This is the essence of how movement in the core of the Sun is maintained. It is the frictional contact of this core with the outer layers of the Sun’s mass, that drives the observed rotation of the Sun. Planetary motion is a byproduct of gravitational particle flow in and repulsion particle flow out of the Sun’s mass and its rotation. Gravity, a phenomena not fully understood by scientists, is caused by particles flowing towards the center of a mass from a region that is crowed the perceived void of space. Accumulation of these particles occur at the center of the host mass. As they gather, they start to overcrowd the space at the center of the mass. The core, in order to alleviate the pressures of build up, reverses the field of polarity of the gravity particles and expels them in concentrated streams at a high velocity. As with any object that rotates, the largest particle ejection occurs at the equator. The particles now have properties opposite to gravity, and they are known as repulsion particles. When the repulsion particles are expelled or bleed off the equator, they have angular momentum inherited from the Sun’s rotation. These particles maintain the distance of the orbits at the repulsion point. This point is where the repulsion force and centrifugal force, due to orbital velocity, equals gravitational force. The particles expand away from the Sun in a curved pin-wheeled motion, which provides the push to maintain the forward momentum of the planets. This is why the planets move in the same direction with orbital speeds related to their distance from the Sun. Evidence of this motion can be seen in a system of many cosmic objects, as the gather in numbers preceding the wake of repulsion particles extending out in a curved arm from the gravitational center. An example would be M-51, the Whirlpool Galaxy. There is no chance occurrence here.