I am a Theist, I believe in God. I believe He created everything in six days, man rebelled against Him, He sent Jesus Christ to redeem man, and soon whoever is still in rebellion against Him will be JUSTLY punished for eternity. Why do I believe this? Because the Bible said it. I am still waiting for the Bible to be proved wrong.. . On the topic of the deity of Jesus. Jesus is part of the Trinity. He is 100% God and 100% man. Jesus was born around 3 B.C.E. (Before Christian Era) He was born to Mary and Joseph, both descendants of King David. He did many miracles, died, and rose again on the third day. Many non-Jewish/Christan sources reference Jesus, and not many Atheists I have heard of deny the existence of a man named Jesus, but they deny his Deity. Jesus' followers died in his name, because He was the Son of God, they saw the miracles, saw him after the resurrection, and witnessed his ascension. This is what they died for, if this is a lie, don't you think, when they are about to get killed, say it was all a lie?. . Why does God allow pain and suffering? If Got the Creator, created man to live life in two stages, an earthly life and an afterlife, Is it absolutely wrong for God to move his creation from one stage to the other?  Man rejected God and is in rebellion against him because of sin in the world. People dying is a fact of life. Things just happen. None of these car crashes, or terrorist attacks were orchestrated by God. I believe the future is open, so whatever happens just happens. Since there is suffering on Earth, wouldn't it be more cruel to prolong the life here? Anyway He gives you a chance at ETERNAL LIFE, so go ahead and spend your life here the way you like, but ultimately, you will get eternal life, It is your choice WHERE you spend that, in Heaven or Hell.. . I believe that a something cannot make itself from nothing, and everything will run out of energy sooner or later. The universe could NOT have always existed because it would have run out of all usable energy long ago. It had to have been made. The Big Bang theory states that all matter in the universe exploded into existence from a small, golf ball sized object. Well, where did THAT come from? It must have been created, unless it was always there. Don't you Atheists still need faith to believe that?. . The Bible. To my knowledge, there is no scientific proof that contradicts the Bible. I'll start with Dinosaurs. Tanniyn is the Hebrew word generally associated with “dinosaur”,  “sea monster”,  “dragon”, “serpent”, “reptile”, or “great creature”. This word occurs 28 times in the Bible. Two other names are mentioned, Behemoth and Leviathan. The description of a behemoth is found in Job 40:15-24. The Leviathan in Job 41, Psalm 104:25 and 26, and Isaiah 27:1.  I will not write out the verses here, feel free to look them up on any on line Bible. . In 1 Corinthians 15:41 the Bible tells how each star is different. All stars look alike to the naked eye, but scientific discoveries have proved the Bible correct! In Job 26:7, it describes how God stretched out the north over empty space; He hung the earth on nothing. About 300 years ago, science discovered air had weight, but this was stated in Job 28:25. Ecclesiastes 1:6 describes the circulation of the atmosphere. Job 30:5 and 6, this is the origin of cavemen. I could go on, but here is a website to go to http://www.clarifyingchristianity.com/science.shtml.