see http://WhatJewsBelieve.org for a more in depth answer!. . The differences between Judaism and Christianity go way beyond the simple idea that Christians say that Jesus was the Messiah, while Jews say he wasnt.. . The basic beliefs of Christianity about Jesus are against what the Bible says, and since Jews follow the Bible, they rejected Jesus from the very beginning.. . The Christian understanding is that the Messiah, Jesus, died for the sins of the people. The messiah is supposed to be a human sacrifice that is the blood sacrifice necessary for the forgiveness of sin.. . But we are taught in our Torah that no one can die for the sins of another. In Deuteronomy 24:16 it specifically says this:. . Deuteronomy 24:16 The fathers shall not . be put to death for the children, neither . shall the children be put to death for. the fathers: . every man shall be put to death for his . own sin (eesh b'chet-o yumatu).. . In Exodus 32:30-35, Moses tries to offer himself to atone for the sins of the people. To be written out of Gd's book, means to be written out of the Book of Life, which means Moses was asking to die for the sins of the People. Gd's response is No, it does not work that way, each man dies for his own sin:. . Exodus 32:30-35 And it came to pass on the . morrow, that Moses said unto the people, . Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will . go up unto the Etrnl; perhaps I shall make . an atonement for your sin. And Moses . returned unto the Etrnl, and said, Oh, . this people have sinned a great sin, and . have made them gods of gold. Yet now, if . thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, . blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book . which thou hast written. And the Etrnl . said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned . against me, him will I blot out of my . book. . . The whole of chapter 18 of the book of Ezekiel is about this idea, that no one can die for someone else's sin. Further, this chapter of Ezekiel teaches us that all we have to do for Gd's forgiveness is to stop doing the Bad and start doing the Good, and Gd will forgive us.. . So, the Bible is clear, no one can die for the sins of another, and this means that Jesus cannot die for anyone else's sins.. . Christians also believe that one needs a blood sacrifice for the forgiveness of sin, that one who does not have such a blood sacrifice will die in their sins, and go to hell, except for the sacrifice of Jesus.. . This, too, is UnBiblical. The Bible describes blood sacrifices for the forgiveness of sin in the Book of Leviticus. But it is in Leviticus itself, in the middle of the discussion of the sin sacrifices, that we are taught that we do not need a blood sacrifice to be forgiven for our sins. Offering a blood sacrifice was an expensive thing to do for the family offering the animal. Was forgiveness then, to be only for the rich? No, because if one could not afford a blood sacrifice then one who sins could bring flour, which has no blood and no life as their sacrifice, and Gd forgave them!. . Leviticus 5:11-13; But if he be not able to . bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, . then he that sinned shall bring for his . offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine . flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil . upon it, neither shall he put any . frankincense thereon: for it is a sin . offering.. . Furthermore, read the Book of Jonah. In Jonah, the People of Ninevah do three things in order to be forgiven by Gd. They fast, they pray for forgiveness, and they stop doing the Bad and start doing the Good, and Gd forgave them! This is exactly what we do on Yom Kippur, we fast, we pray for forgiveness, and, hopefully, we stop doing the Bad and start doing the Good, and Gd forgives us. And what book do we read on Yom Kippur afternoon? The Book of Jonah!. . Jonah 3:7-10 And he caused it to be proclaimed . and published through Ninevah, by the decree . of the King and his nobles, saying, Let . neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste . anyt