Joey---- That is just stupid, the ingrediants are not burnt. . . And is more of a Ruby color when you hold it up to light.. . Guiness is a light porter, if there are plenty of dark beers out there not just guiness. Porters, stouts, and other deep black beers are the most popular type. If you want a more detailed explanation of WHY it is black, take a trip to www.beeradvocate.com. . Here is an exert from a recent interview with Fergal Murray, a guiness brewaster. . "A lot of Guinness lovers swear the beer’s color has recently changed from black to ruby red. Murray insisted otherwise; rather, only certain types of glassware (like the company’s own narrow-bottomed vessels), he said, truly showcase the beer’s ruby hue.". . Most Americans look at Stout as a thick, murky, "eat it with a spoon" beer. It is also a common misconception that these black beers are more potent, simply due to their appearance. Plenty of Bostonians see it as a nitro forced black beverage and happily quaff down several pints a night with out a second thought, usually a Guinness Draught or Murphy's. Guinness has less alcohol than Budweiser, around 4.2% alcohol by volume (on tap, 4.1% draught can, in the US) which would explain why everyone can drink so much of it, so quickly, and why it has become a popular session beer. But, here's a little Stout 101 for the novices, for those that might want to switch things up a bit: We have all been to one of the many Irish pubs in the area, and friends or co-workers talk in awe about Guinness and how it is the best stout, if not beer, in the world. Not entirely true. The modern day Guinness "on draught version" is definitely the best selling Stout in the world, but there's more to the story.. . There are many variations of the stout beer style. Some are dry and some are sweet, some hoppy and some alcoholic. All have that common characteristic of a roasted flavour that sets them apart from any other style. Usually this roasted character comes from the use of roasted barley, which is barley grain that has not been malted, but rather highly kilned. The process imparts a uniqueness to the grain and creates flavours ranging from bitter unsweetened chocolate to coffee, to a dry grain astringency.. . In the late 1600's to early 1700's, the term "stout" was often used to reference a strong beer. When the term actually became a style is up for interpretation, however, what we do know is that back in the late 1700's, when Guinness was first brewing what was then called its Porter, it was not brewing the light bodied easy to suck down creamy stout that most imbibers enjoy today. It was a dark murky looking brew, standing, roughly, a whopping 7.5% abv. Guinness first brewed a strong export style to be shipped to the Caribbean, an Export / Foreign Stout, hence the name Guinness Foreign Export Strong Porter (later to be called, Foreign Extra Stout). It had a very complex, huge body, big hop profile and an intense robust character. You can still purchase it today -- and it's very much brewed the same way -- but only in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean.. . In the very late 1700's, some English breweries produced an export stout, similar to a foreign export, specifically for the Baltic area. This variation was called a Russian Imperial Stout. Brewed to an extreme strength, around 8-11% abv, and conditioned for months, even aged for years before consumption, these brews were quite popular within the Russian Imperial Court. The closest rendition of this brew is A. Le Coq Imperial Extra Double Stout imported by B. United International. Others include: North Coast's Old Rasputin Imperial Stout, Smuttynose Imperial Stout, Sam Smith Imperial Stout and Rogue Imperial Stout.. . One of the most common stouts, Dry Irish Stout, can be any where from 3.5-5.5% abv, with a moderate body to keep it on the drinkable side. They're usually a lower carbonation brew and serv