Depending on where you lived, 1993 had a "blue moon" in either August or September. If you were east of a line running down the Atlantic Ocean, the blue moon fell in September; west of that line, the blue month was August.. . There is a lot of folklore about the moon. Modern folklore has it that full moons make for better parties and higher booking rates at mental hospitals, but all the serious studies I've read deny the relationship.. . The most interesting bit of modern folklore from my point of view as a student of language and folklore is the sudden popularity of the term "blue moon." Names of moons at certain times of the year have been around a long time, and almanacs are especially wont to list twelve of them. The Harvest Moon is the best known of these, lighting up the fields sometime after the fall equinox, enabling work to continue late into the night. Of course folklorists know that the traditional belief is widespread that certain crops harvested by the light of the moon, or alternatively in the waning of the moon, keep better than those cut at other times. The full Harvest Moon was a signal, to those who would listen, that it was time to start the last work of the year in the fields. The late fall Hunter's Moon was invented by analogy with the Harvest Moon, and some of the other almanac moon names have the same ring of later invention.. . Blue Moon is different from the monthly or seasonal moon names as it isn't restricted to a time of year. It is a movable feast.. . At least once during August or September this year [1993], you probably heard through the media about the "blue moon." People have been saying that "according to folklore" the second moon in a calendar month is a "blue moon." So, they say, this is the origin of the phrase "once in a blue moon." Don't believe them! "Once in a blue moon" is old, about 150 years old, but the two-full-moons-in-a-month meaning of "blue moon" is a lot younger than that. The older meaning may be wishy-washy and the newer one solid and technical, but don't let anyone tell you they have replaced one with the other.. . It's not rare to see two full moons in a month. Because the moon and our calendar are not in sync and all the months but February are longer than the moon's synodical cycle, it happens about seven times in every nineteen years. That's every thirty-three months on average. Months have different lengths, so the phenomenon moves around a bit. In 1999 there will even be two "blue" moons. If you think about it, it's a little like getting paid every second Friday and finding that some months you get paid three times instead of twice.. . Meaning is a slippery substance. The phrase "blue moon" has been around a long time, well over 400 years, but during that time its meaning has shifted. I have counted six different meanings which have been carried by the term, and at least four of them are still current today. That makes discussion of the term a little complicated.. . The earliest references to a blue moon are in a phrase remarkably like early references to the moon's "green cheese." Both phrases were used as examples of obvious absurdities about which there could be no argument. Four hundred years ago, if someone said, "He would argue the moon was blue," the average sixteenth century man would take it the way we understand, "He'd argue that black is white." This understanding of a blue moon being absurd (the first meaning) led eventually to a second meaning, that of "never." To say that something would happen when the moon turned blue was like saying that it would happen on Tib's Eve (at least before Tib got a day near Christmas assigned to her). Or that it would be on the Twelfth of Never.. . But of course we all know there are examples of the moon actually turning blue; that's t