Well i don't know if i necessarily believe in "God", but i believe in some kind of higher being.  i think it would be pretty short-sighted to think that we and that this world is it.  And that nothing else exists outisde of this.  But religion itself can be daunting.  Should i believe in God, Jesus Christ, Allah, Buddha, etc?  Religion is a construct of man.  What most people believe to be God is just an idea that a person had.  And that idea is fallible.  I don't think you can go wrong if you trust what is inside of your head and heart.  It sounds cheesy, but it's just simple and we take it for granted all too much.  Following a set of dogmatic beliefs won't necessarily bring you closer to God.  Nor will just belief alone.  I think it's a large combination of things.  . . My mother is very religious and i've learned to genuinely respect that.  It takes a lot to really believe and follow the practices of the church in this modern world.  And i think that believing in something is healthy and natural.  It is in our human nature to be curious and to think outside of just ourselves.  Whatever your beliefs may be i think that if it feels right to you, then you should do it.  . . There is something I learned in one of my philosophy courses which is called negative theology.  It basically says that God is so beyond human beings and so beyond our concepts and minds and ideas that he could never be defined in words or thoughts.  It says that god is everything that is not.  Everytime we try to put god into a pretty little box with a simple explanation, we grow farther away from the truth.  This higher being is just way too beyond anything we can imagine or fathom.  We can only think and conceptualize as far as our human minds will allow us, but supposedly God is not human or like any organic thing on our planet or in our universe and therefore has the capacity to think and conceptualize and just be in ways far different from us.   . . as far as proof goes..... how can you prove such a thing?  can you prove love? no, not necessarily.  but that does not mean it does not exist.  watch the movie, kinsey.  it shows us why love cannot be a science.  love cannot be measured.    . . i think choosing to follow a religion is certainly a leap of faith.  but we all take leaps of faith all the time and they don't necessarily have to be religious.  we take chances with love and career and everything else.  so why couldn't we take a chance on god?  i'm not saying i do or don't believe.  i'm kind of up in the air about it.  but i hate to label myself as an agnostic because i think there are a lot of dimensions that aren't covered.  and labels are damaging in so many ways anyways.  i guess if forced to, i would just call myself spiritual.  but i definitely see and understand both sides of the coin here.  . . i think you can still believe in god and believe in yourself.  i don't think they're co-dependant of each other.  in most religions, it takes both.  god pretty much sets a guideline for human beings for living the good life and it's up to us to follow/carry that through into real world situations.  so again, that would require both confidence/belief in god and yourself. .   . so in truth i think the best thing we can all do is to lead a good life, a life that helps others and looks out for others' best interests, and to be good to ourselves.  i think the rest will fall into place someway or another.