This is an excellent multifaceted question – seemingly innocent enough, yet profoundly complex.    I understand the spirit in which you are asking the question.   …Although, I must say I also enjoyed your immaculate sense of humor in referring to a “dictionary” for the possible resolution of this otherwise convoluted conundrum!  :-)  …Having said that, and so far as YA obviously not being the proper milieu for detailed and rigorous contemplations over such knotty issues, allow me NOT to consider the Dialectics, the Synergetic-informed Approach or the Dual Knowledge Theory aspects involved.   I would also try to refrain from any Contextualism and Organicism (i.e. Synthetic World Hypotheses Based) type discussions here.   So the challenge is: What can we say about this inquiry that would not overstep the obvious time and space limitations of the YA format?    I’m afraid the answer is: Perhaps very little; even so, let’s give it a try.    …First of all, as far as the forms of knowledge is concerned, Apprehension can be considered as “knowledge by direct acquaintance”, whereas Comprehension is more “knowledge about” (and I realize this may not necessarily be the most kosher construct/distinction).    Many times, for instance, complex philosophical and/or theological doctrines (or even scientific theories for that matter) maybe apprehended and yet not comprehended by the human mind.    In interpreting an artistic piece, for example, the creator’s intentions may easily lead to the critic’s apprehension, yet full comprehension is usually always lacking (for whatever reason, including trans-dimensionality, meaninglessness, manipulated perception, etc.)     …In general it is good to keep in mind that in comparing degrees of mental perception (e.g. Apprehension vs. Comprehension) one may not necessarily run into apparent logical contradictions, before one reaches the limits of fullest understanding.   …And I guess that’s the best I can leave with you here on the subject.      Keep looking into this – it will take you on the greatest intellectual roller coaster ride of your life.   Good Luck and Have Fun!