As the Bible says, it is quite alright to speak in tongues, as long as there is a translator. And it of course has to be a correct translation. And if of God, it will in no way, contradict God's Word, and will be upheld by the Bible. Does that make sense? Here is what the Bible has to say about this issue: 1 Corinthians 14:6-15. 6. Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either by revelation, or by knowledge, or by prophesying, or by doctrine? 7. And even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped? 8. For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle? 9. So likewise ye, except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye shall speak into the air. 10. There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without signification. 11. Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian unto me. 12. Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church. 13. Wherefore let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret. 14. For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful. 15. What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding. . Me again: Yes, it is long, but very enlightening.  . There have been times that people will give a bunch of gibberish, and then proceed to tell people what to do, by saying that that's what God said. And that is not right. . So that may be one reason that Christians avoid it, but also, maybe God just doesn't give us such understanding anymore, so obviously we can't really speak in tongues, so it is fraud. . Another thing to consider, is that maybe speaking in tongues is only speaking in another language, such as Swahili, and preaching God's word. So we learn a language, and use it to spread the gospel. In the pentacostal story (Acts chapt. 2) it kind of sounds like that's what the apostles did, except the Holy Spirit gave them the ability. Perhaps God just doesn't do that anymore, but perhaps he does. There are still real-life "miracles" going on, so.... Pray that God will give you true understanding, as will I, and thank you for allowing me to share. God's Peace