Amendment XV (the Fifteenth Amendment) of the United States Constitution grants voting rights regardless of race.. . The amendment is one of the post-Civil War, Reconstruction amendments. It was ratified on February 3, 1870.. . This amendment prohibits the states or the federal government from using a citizen's race, color, or previous status as a slave as a voting qualification. Its basic purpose was to enfranchise former slaves. But it was not really until the Voting Rights Act in 1965, almost a century later, that this purpose was actually achieved in all states.. . The first person to vote under the provisions of the amendment was Thomas Mundy Peterson.. . After the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment, which barred slavery, and the Fourteenth Amendment, which guaranteed former slaves citizenship, there were still fears by the Radical Republicans that sympathizers to the Confederate cause would attempt to achieve through suppression of the black vote what they could not obtain by war. No southern state had ever had a black elected official, and most southern states even prohibited the vote to freed slaves and free-born blacks. Blacks were known to be sympathetic to the Republicans thanks to their clear anti-slavery policies, and the efforts of the Republicans with Reconstruction after the American Civil War. As to the fear that southern legislatures would restrict the vote to whites as they did before the Civil War, the amendment was clearly justified and, in retrospect, the fears of the Radicals were well founded. They also saw a political opportunity to break the hold of the Democratic Party over the deep south.. . After the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment, southern blacks voted in numbers that on a per capita basis would probably exceed black political participation today. On both a per capita and absolute basis, more blacks were elected to political office during the period from 1865 to 1880 than at any other time in American history. Although no state elected a black governor during Reconstruction, a number of state legislatures were effectively under the control of a substantial African American caucus. These legislatures brought in programs that are considered part of government's duty now, but at the time were radical, such as universal public education. They also set aside all racially biased laws, even those prohibiting interracial marriage.. . Despite the efforts of groups like the Ku Klux Klan to intimidate black voters and white Republicans, assurance of federal support for democratically elected southern governments meant that most Republican voters could both vote and rule in confidence. For example, when an all-white mob attempted to take over the interracial government of New Orleans, President Ulysses S. Grant sent in federal troops to restore the elected mayor.. . However, after the close election of Rutherford B. Hayes, Hayes, in order to mollify the South, agreed to withdraw federal troops. He also overlooked poll violence in the deep south, despite several attempts by the Republicans to pass laws assuring the rights of black voters and to punish intimidation. To show the unwillingness of Congress to take any action at this time, even a bill that would have required incidents of violence only at polling places to be publicized failed to be passed. Without the restrictions, voting place violence against blacks and Republicans increased, including instances of murder. Most of this was done without any interference by law enforcement, and often even with their co-operation.. . By the 1890s, many southern states had rigorous voter qualification laws, including literacy tests and poll taxes. Some states even made it difficult to find a place to register to vote. Most of these laws were race neutral, but clearly discriminated against black voters, either through their construction or their administration. For example, most states required literacy tests, but voters were exempt if they could prove t