Catholicism is the oldest and perhaps the most corrupt apostate religious organization currently on the planet.  It is a man-made religion with no spiritual roots or foundation in the least.  It bases its shakey Biblical roots to a passage in the book of Matthew when the Lord told Peter that upon "this rock" I will build my church.  Catholics misinterpret this passage to mean upon "Peter" the church would be built, when in reality the Lord was referring to the "rock" of revelation, which was referred to in the previous verse.  It was this earliest Christian church that was in charge of translating the Bible.  With this power, early monks changed verses, omitted scriptures, and altered the meaning and intent of many scriptures to fit their church's apostate teachings.  The Catholic church in recent times has embraced child molesting priests, shuffling them from location to location to avoid detection and arrest.  They have stood in the way of law enforcement and civil courts that have attempted to force these pedophile priests to answer to their crimes.  The Catholic Church is strongest in countries where education is the lowest--therefore the majority of Catholics on the earth are poorly educated and unaware of the corrupt practices their church embraces and advocates.  In addition, most Catholics have virtually no understanding of the teachings of their faith.  They are Catholic because their parents were Catholic--NOT because they embrace and understand the tenets of their faith.  When asked about their beliefs, many Catholics shrug their shoulders, unable to explain even the most basic doctrines they claim they believe.  In addition, few Catholics are regular antendees at worship services.  Most attend when they were "hatched" when they were "matched" and when they were "dispatched."  Otherwise their shadows seldom darken chapel doorways.  The Catholic Church grows mostly through simple sexual reproduction--adding new members as each new generation grows.  Very few--virtually none--of the growth of the Catholic comes from sincere seekers of religious truth who investigate the church's teachings and then join.  The leader of the Catholic Church is the Pope--a man who does NOT claim to receive revelation from God, and simply claims some sort of vague spiritual leadership.  The recently deceased Pope, John Paul II may very well go down in history as the Patron Saint of Child Molesters, since it has recently come to light that he actively knew of pedophile priests and did nothing to remove them from their position of leadership and trust within the church.