Gosh, why do you need to study that long? It will take almost all of your time just for studying which is unbalanced for a person. You must also try to take some time to play or rest other than merely studying.. . But then, if you really want to study for so many hours in a day. I suggest that you find more ways of making study easier and more interesting in either way.. . Set a time-table of what you want to do from Monday to Friday. Make sure you follow the time-table and do what you planned. You can also give choices for yourself such as planning two subjects at the same time so that you can choose which one to study for. Make it at least 30 minutes for one easier subject and at least 1 hour for those which are more difficult. Make sure you know how many subjects you want to study and don't miss out even one of it.. . Find some ways to make studying more interesting so that you won't mind studying for 17-18 hours in a day. For example, surf the net to find interesting informations based on the topic you will be studying as some extra informations. You can also surf the net to get some ideas in decorating your notes or making your notes more interesting to read which can be by drawing funny pictures to represent some important points to remember. Drawing simple script of comics can also help you to remember the facts which are longer easily if you know how to draw it out.. . Other than that, I would certainly give you the suggestion to find some movies in connected to the topic you are studying so that it will be more interesting to study rather than just reading from books if you hate reading a lot. Watching movies can also help you to remember more on the topic which is related. Some channels such as the NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC, ANIMAL PLANET or DISCOVERY CHANNEL can be watched if you would like to find some documentary shows based on scientific findings.. . Slide shows can be home-made if you cooked up the correct recipe. You can make it interesting by making notes into a slide show so that you can watch it as well as revising for your studies which can be more interesting if there is some funny pictures connected to the topic. Sometimes you can also invent ways to make studying easier and more fun. Symbols which you understand can be invented so that you can remember things easier.. . If you like musics, you can also play some classical or romantic musics as the background when you are studying so that you won't feel sleepy or bored.. . I don't know which way you will like but I sure hope I can help you in some way, somehow. Good luck for your studies too!