f this is a serious question and you are the keeper for a group of monkeys, you need better job training and better advice than you'll get here.. There is obviously a problem, either with the animal or with the social structure of the group.. . I really hope this is a joke post.. If you are working in a wildlife park or similar, you should have been given training in Health and Safety, plus vaccinations such as tetanus and hepatitis. Not just because you can give these to the monkey but that he can pass them to you, even through urine and faeces and a dirty coat. He could also be carrying or suffering from Weils disease.. You should have been given basic training about animal behaviour, and further training specific to the species. As a rookie you should be working under the supervision of an experienced member of staff, not in charge of this group.. You should have been taught about primate body language and behaviour, including how to approach and move around the cage without causing alarm.. You should also have been given training about the Flight or Fight reaction, and how animals behave because of it. Cornered, frightened animals attack in self defense to buy themselves time and space to escape. The best description I can offer is found in 'The Last Great Wild Beast Show' by Bill Jordan and Stephan Ormrod, isbn 0 09 461900.. Added to that, monkeys are  smart and can be bullies. Some are not safe to handle on your own. There should be a co-ordinated group working on this problem wih an experienced person in charge.. If you have ever handled a feral cat you'll have some idea about what you and the monkey are in for. The cat is wild and doesn't want you anywhere near it, it sees you as a threat. But it needs blood testing for FIV, de-fleaing and its jabs.. If you manage to catch it, you need to know how to hold it so that it doesn't tear you apart. You need to work quickly and quietly.. Even then the vet can't take a blood sample because you just can't hold it still enough and its veins are contracted. The vet can't listen to its heart or breathing because its pulse rate is through the roof and all you can hear is it screaming at you. And meds including anaesthesia are now difficult to administer, plus the dose may be off because if the adrenaline rush.. It just isn't normal for monkeys to neglect their own hygeine, and it isn't normal for a monkey to stay ungroomed by the rest of the group. He isn't seen as a member of his social group. His stress levels are going to be through the roof and if he isn't sick he soon will be. You are probably going to have to get the vet to dart him for his safety and yours, despite the anaesthetic risk and the risk to him from the rest of the group when he goes under. They are likely to react very badly to the whole thing.. If this is a joke post you can have a good laugh at me, I don't mind. I hope it is.