History has shown that when the marginal tax rates are cut, accross the board, tax revenue increases, because some of the people, who have the extra money, invest it in stocks or bonds or even in a savings account.  If it's in a savings account, then the bank usually invests it in a business, or real estate or something else.  At any rate, that money is put into commerce in a meaningful way.  When stocks are purchased, the company who issued the stock uses the money to expand, thus needing more employees.  These employees pay income tax.  You'll notice that after the tax cuts, there is a very low unemployment rate.  The government does have a budget defecit, but that shouldn't worry you.  It's historically high, but when you compare it to the deficit that France, Germany, and Japan have, it's microscopic.  As the economic cycle continues, interest rates will rise, causing debt to become more expensive for the consumer.  The value of the dollar will drop.  This is inflation.  We are entering an inflationary period now.  This is not necessarily a bad thing, as it allows the more expensive debt, including the governments debt, to be repaid with dollars, that are cheaper than they were when they were borrowed.  The debt gets paid off faster.  You can look back at the time when President Reagan lowered taxes during a time of high interest rates and record inflation.  Over the next 15 years our economy grew so steadily, that our buget deficit was eliminated.  OUr economy actually outgrew our debt, and it will happen again in time.  You will here politicians on both sides arguing about it and trying to take credit for it, but the reason it happens is because American people invest their money in businesses and houses.  All the government has to do is take less of your money.    Please read "Economics In One Lesson" by Henry Hazlitt.  It will explain this and many other aspeects of different types of economies in great detail in a very readable format.  It will also allow you to spot a lying politician or an uniformed citizen easily.  You won't ever be fooled by either.  Please read it.  It will benefit you in ways you can't imagine, not the least of which is financially. See the link below to look at it. Have a great day.