Hi! Let me see if I can help.. . 1. The first thing you have to do is get the appropriate software you need to make your website. Do you have this already? If so, Great! If not, I suggest your looking into this FIRST because cost, maintenance and operational fees may influence your decision for operating your website.. . 2. Next, decide just what kind of website entity you want to offer.   By this I mean, do you want a FREE site image. (www.freenamesite.com/YOUR COMPANY NAME). or a PROFESSIONAL site image . (www.YOUR COMPANY NAME.com). . This is important to consider because of . (a) Cost  . (b) Internet Image & Appeal. (c) Customer Response. . 3. Create an online BUSINESS NAME for yourself (domain) and Register it. A domain name is like a phone number: nobody else can have one exactly like it. Make sure your domain name is easy for someone to remember and hopefully, one that will make the purpose of your business instantly recognizable.. . 4. If you have chosen to make your website a PROFESSIONAL one, your next step is to find a Hosting Service. Hosting services are readily available most everywhere and prices range from FREE (with other purchases or obligations) to $1,000 per month or more - depending on what services you require.. . AVERAGE hosting services range from $4.95 per month to $9.95 per month, but if you chose to operate with a FREE site image, there is no cost for hosting - your company name will be tagged behind the company that is footing the bill.. . Those are the INITIAL steps to make.. . Basically, you have to decide on:.  . (a) Appeal & desireability of your website  - check on the Internet for similar websites  and see how successful THEY are,. . (b) Operating costs of your website - FREE or what can your budget permit every month? The cost can be astronomical if you are not careful.. . (c) Marketing your website - This is important because just having a website on the Internet does not mean you are in business. People must KNOW you are open, and this is accomplished by putting your website on search engines (like Yahoo & Google, etc.) using the Keywords and Meta-tags that describe your website; sort of like a dictionary or phone directory. . . Then, when people are looking for what your website is offering, they type in the words that trigger the search engines to look for you (and others like you). It is then the option of the visitor (a.k.a. surfer) to decide which website he/she will browse through at that time.. . There are a LOT of steps involved, my friend, but those are the BASIC. Planning and Research is best to do before embarking on ANY new venture. Don't get sold on a concept - do your homework first!. . I hope this helps you get started... . . Thanks for asking and Good Luck to you!