This is an extremely serious condition for a cat.  The result of not treating it swiftly can be deafness for the cat.. . I got my cat from a friend of a friend who owned a farm.  She was born there and probably spent a lot of time in the barn and outdoors in general. When I got her she had this black gunk in both her ears.. . I took her to the vet almost as soon as I got her, so I could get her shots and get her registered, checked out, and her checked out and find out anything I should know as a cat owner.  She was the first cat I had ever owned.. . He said the black stuff was ear mites and gave me some stuff for that.  I dutifully put that on her on my back patio in the mornings according to the directions that came with it.  The result was her ears got clean and stayed that way forever.  She suffered no loss of hearing as far as I can tell.  She comes when I call her name, just like a dog, in fact!. . My mom had a cat which she got from a shelter.  Eventually it passed on to my brother.  Before, it had been an indoor cat.  My brother decided it should be an outdoor cat.  At some point, the cat must have gotten ear mites.  Not sure if this was before anyone in our family had it or afterwards.  Whichever it was, the mite infestation must not have been caught and treated in time.  . . The cat is quite deaf.  It never responds when being called, even to look, when you are right there in the room with it.  It does not respond to loud noises at all, either.. . I know the annual checkups you take your cat to the vet for are kind of expensive but a big portion of that is for the shots, some of which they do not need every year anyway.  For example, my cat gets a 3 year rabies shot - so it does not need one every year.  So most years, the annual visit to vet is not as expensive as that one.. . If you are sure that the condition is caused by ear mites and you cannot afford to take the cat to the vet right now, at least get the medicine right away and apply it as directed.  I just looked, and PetSmart carries it.  There is probably a PetSmart near you and if not, it looks like you can order it from their web site.  It only costs $10.49 today.. . According to the second Source I have listed (kittencare.com) the mites could have moved from your cat to your house.  It sounds like they might move back again.  You might want to be on guard for that.. . I really encourage you to talk to a vet.. . Like I said, though both my cat and my brother's/mother's cat had the same condition - my cat has perfect hearing and the other cat is completely deaf.  The only difference was in the treatment they received.. . If you must skip the visit to the vet, or delay it, do not delay treating the ear mites at all!  Get the medicine for it and carefully use it as directed.. . Make sure you apply the miticide outside and make sure you dispose of whatever you apply it to your cats ears with outside as well.  Do not bring it back in your house to throw it away.  Do not wipe your cats ears inside. You might wipe the mites onto your floor and you really want to keep them outside.. . I am including a couple more links just so you will have more sources of information at your fingertips.  Might as well do all your research at once so you can act right away, without second thoughts or wishing you had more information.. . Good luck with the treatment and I hope your kitty gets well!. . The first step is spotting the mites and recognizing what they are, not just thinking it is dirt.. . You have done that, so now all that is left is the treatment and it is not hard to do.. . Make sure you hold your cat's head perfectly still while you apply the stuff.  Do not go in too far, either.. . She should be fine if you have caught the problem in time.