In most countries people think that holy and inspired individuals receive orientation and instruction from God. Be it may these good and just persons, not all are prophets of God. Check out Numbers 11:29, 12:6, Exodus 33:11, Luke 2:70, and esp. Amos 3:7..  A prophet is a servant chosen by God, to supervise His family here on the Earth. He denounces sin and predicts its consequences. He is a promoter of righteousness. His primary purpose, however, is the bear testimony of Jesus Christ..  Since, the start of the world, in each era, God has revealed his plan of happiness through prophets to all people and families..  Apostasy means to reject the prophets of God the Father, and reject or distort the gospel of Jesus Christ. .  The Bible talks of both time when Earth´s inhabitants were guided by a prophet, and times also of apostasy. To end each period of apostasy, God calls another prophet to establish His kingdom once more on the Earth, giving the prophet the Priesthood, which is the authority to act in God´s name for the salvation of His Children..   Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and other ancient prophets, all of them taught the gospel of Christ. Unhappily, all of their times ended in apostasy.. .   We can´t know of spiritual truths, or if there be a prophet chosen of God in our time, without praying. But if he were here on this Earth living, he will also possess the same authority that Moses and the other prophets possessed before him..   Who is the only who knows for sure and cannot lie?(See James 1:5). James an apostle of the Lord wrote a letter to the early members of the Christ´s Church, telling them to whom they might ask in such times of uncertainty. Perhaps this will help you as well..   Pray that the Lord will lead you to His prophet. As we learned in Amos 3:7, God will ´do nothing´ save that he has called one of these servants. God is the same yesterday, today and always..   If called called prophets in ancient times, why would he not call one to establish his kingdom today?.   So, has God ceased to exist?.   Well, then maybe he doesn´t love us anymore?.   If we are living in days of great technological leaps and bounds, maybe we don´t need God anymore?.   I don´t know what you´d say, but I say - certainly not.. .   Pray in faith, with real intent, that your loving Heavenly Father will lead you to the truth that you seek.