I'm not an American - I'm from Brazil - and I used to go to College in Tennessee. After I graduated I returned home and I usually travel to the US on business or to see the good friends I left there.. So, I'm not interested, by any means, to cross the border of Mexico to live the American Dream.. I can do it legally trough the immigration service.. But, I would like to address the issue of illegal immigration from another perspective: the demand issue.. There's a tremendous quantity of job in the United States of America that are not going to be taken by Americans. Businessmen that operate in sectors that are heavily intense in man-force need to contract immigrant from other countries in order to increase their margins and serve the custommers with a competitive price.. It's business! We are not talking about an attempt to reduce poverty in Mexico or any other country in the world, by bringing people to live and work in the US!. The immigration law allows workers from other countries to come to the US to work. But guess what? Only high-qualified workers can apply to it and get a nice job.. That kind of immigration - from an american middle class perspective - harms very good jobs that, otherwise, would be occupied by an american citizen.. Workers with low qualification - and it's incredible how policy makers cannot understand that - usually have to go trough the borders or get into the US with a non-immigrant status (Student Visa, Tourist Visa or Business Visa).. Globalization is going to change that. As other countries develop - specially the BRIC's (Brazil, Russia, India and China) - the interest of immigrating to the US will dramatically reduce.. An alert to policy markers: the jobs will immigrate if people are not able to come to the US to work.. The impact in the economy will be tremendous. Lawrence Summers - US Treasury secretary during the Bill Clinton Administration - wrote an article about it few weeks ago and talks about a very clear change in the work-force in the world: jobs positions are leaving the US faster than ever.. Would you contract an american to work in computers for US$ 80.000 a year (at the lowest) or would you go for an Indian that works for incredibles US$ 2.000 a month? Ask Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, Steve Jobs and so many other businessmen to have the proper answer.. That's a fantastic package: the professional stays home (and believe me, people prefer to work in their own country if they are allowed to), the country delevops (because the salary it's above the national income) and an econmic boost is ready to begin.. So, in order to stay competitive the US has to tackle that issue or jobs will immigrate.. There are no easy answer to the immigration problem. One thing is certain - as Peter Druker used to say: "The impact of immigration in the world economy will be the next big thing in the political agenda".. Let's just hope politics take it seriously and leave ideology aside.