Oh man hold on wait a minute!!. . You need to make sure the boat has been de-winterized first. I doubt the guy who sold it to you did this:. . Oil Check. If the previous owner did not change the engine oil when he put the boat up for the season, now is the time to do it. Make sure you change the oil filter also. Check oil in outdrive.. . Battery Inspection. Reattach the cables. Make sure the terminals are not corroded. If so, wipe them clean. If your battery takes water, fill it up. A dry battery is a bad battery. (some people learn that the hard way.) With a battery tester, check the volts and amps. Does it have juice? If it is charged and still no luck, it may be time to buy a new battery.. . Cooling System. Hopefully the previous owner drained the cooling system if they live in a cold winter climate to prevent freezing and cracking. If so, fill 'er back up. Rinse out the strainer and check the hoses for cracks.. . Fuel System. He also should have topped off the tank with gas to prevent any moisture and condensation forming in the tank and diluting the gas. Change the fuel filter. Make sure the fuel line is attached and not cracked. In the winter these hoses can become dry and brittle.. . Distributor. Take the distributor cap off and clean it out. Corrosion could have occurred during the winter. Make sure all connections are restored.. . Belts. Tighten the belts if needed. You should only be able to push the belt slightly down. If the belts do not fit snugly in their pulley grooves, they may be worn and in need of replacement. Belts that are not tight will wear faster because they will likely begin to slip. The alternator belt usually wears faster than the others. A sign of a worn belt is black soot somewhere in the vicinity of the pulley.. . Other things you should check:. - Change the spark plugs. - Lubricate the engine with WD-40. - Check all hoses. - Check power steering / cables. - Test the bilge pump (if you have one). - Replace the drain plug. - Check rudder and shafts. - Inspect the prop. - Check the trim. - Check the fire extinguisher expiration date. . Come back and ask again when you get ready to Re-winterize the boat.