Set some goals. If you have goals set up for yourself, you have something to look forward to (not to mention a paycheck) Your goals can be to work hard, then in 1 or two years (depending on your profession) you can take that trip to Italy, or Hawaii. Pick goals which are high and will really inspire you. Picture what you really want. Low goals will not really motivate you. Your goals can be to save to buy your dream home, that red sports car, or save to fullfill your lifelong dreams (maybe you've been wanting to open a bookstore, an arcade, or start your own publishing company). . Tell yourself all the time, that if you're not working, you're not making the money that you want. . Sometimes motivation is the hardest thing to jumpstart, but it doesn't have to be. Even make a list of all the smaller things that you want, new clothes, a cd player, some furniture, even a dog. Think about the things that you want every day; if it's constantly in your mind, you'll start moving toward those goals. . Make sure you're on a healthy diet, junk food doesn't give your body the nutrients it needs to be active. Go jogging through your neighborhood a few times a week, and in time you will see an improvement in the way that you feel, and look. Working out will give you a lot of motivation, and keep you from getting or feeling lazy. . . . . Tips . If you haven't worked out much before, stretch first, then start slow, or you will be in so much pain from sore muscles, or pulled muscles. Make sure to drink alot of water, so you dont become dehydrated. . Make a goal sheet, or copy that sheet so you have a couple of them, place one on the fridge, on your night stand, by your computer, even on the bedroom door, just place them where you look or go to often. . Being broke can be one of the biggest motivations ever. . Warnings . There's a difference between resting and being lazy, so be careful to not get so lazy that it starts affecting your health. To name a few, obesity, stress, and depression. You can become depressed if you begin to feel like you're wanting to stay home and watch X-rated movies and spend exessive amount of time playing game-boys or computer games, when you should be resting for your next day's work or mowing the lawn, or spending quality time with your family. This will begin to make you feel better about going to work when you see the smile it puts on your family's face, to know that you are paying your bills and have plenty to eat. . Laziness can be a sign of depression. When you’re depressed your mind and body don’t have the energy to keep active. If the suggestions above don’t increase your activity level, then you may have a more serious case of depression and will need to seek medical attention. Most colleges offer free counseling for students. . Depression is a normal part of the emotional cycle. Everyone will get depressed at some point and most come out of it within a few days. But if the depression lasts longer, or it starts interfering with your work/school, or it occurs frequently, then you should seek professional advice.