http://www.youtube.com/profile?user=TakeTheTest. . . take the liberal test. . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-family. . However . . . . Conservatives want to define what your family should be . Whereas . . . . Liberals put you in charge of your family . Liberals support your right to define what your family will be . Liberals fight for your family's rights against economic and political oppression . . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-business. . However . . . . Conservatives are pro-money, but that often translates into monopolies, which hurt small business and competition, which hurts us all . Whereas . . . . Liberals protect small businesses by regulating the larger ones and by breaking up monopolies . Liberals protect workers in order to create a healthy workforce that will help businesses grow . . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-religion. . However . . . . Conservatives are often for one dominant religion, and are, therefore, against others . Whereas . . . . Liberals support complete freedom of religion and from religion so that all citizen are free to choose the manner in which faith is a part of their lives . Liberals strive to keep government completely out of a family's religious choices . . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-freedom. . However . . . . Conservatives want to stop homosexuals, stop abortions, stop the women's movement, and stop freedom of expression through the use of censorship . Whereas . . . . Liberals leave it up to the parents to teach such values to their children . Liberals believe each person or family should be free to choose how to behave as long as it does not interfere with another's rights . . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-morality. . However . . . . Conservatives are for one specific kind of morality . Whereas . . . . Liberals are for the morality of free choice, where each person or family decides their own values . Liberals want the government to protect our freedom to choose what is important to us rather than to impose the laws and codes of another's morality . . Conservatives say that Liberals are anti-military. . However . . . . Conservatives see the military as a means to impose their values and standards on others . Whereas . . . . Liberals see the military as a vital protection of our freedoms and our liberties, giving us a space in which to pursue happiness . Liberalism's Stance on Specific Issues . . With the desire to promote Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness as the central motivation, the Liberal always defends these tenets when deciding how to stand on a particular issue. The following will show why Liberals often take the stance they do: . . Abortion/Contraception - Liberty means the freedom to control your body, your reproductive system, and your future. . . Affirmative Action - Liberty means having fair opportunities for those in society who are discriminated against. . . Education - Liberty means the freedom to learn in order to build a better future for yourself, your family, your community, and your country. . . Environment - Liberty means the fair use of our nation's natural resources for all citizens. Where possible, without unreasonable restriction to private enterprise, the government should strive to protect our natural environment so all can enjoy its bounty. . . Gun Control - Liberty means the freedom to protect yourself, your family, and your property, with deadly force if necessary. People have a right to keep guns for such a purpose. People also have a right to use guns in sporting activities and in the event that citizens should be called on to form a citizen militia. We do not, however, have a right to own all the latest people-killing technology. The People, through the government, can restrict some of the more deadly weapons being sold today. . . Health - Liberty means the freedom to overcome physical limitations in order to better yourself, your family, your community, and you