A comet is a small body in the solar system that orbits the Sun and exhibits a coma (or atmosphere) and/or a tail. Founded in 1933 by George Hollingberry in Hull as Comet Battery Stores Limited, Comet is now a wholly owned subsidiary of KESA Electricals Plc specialising in Electrical retailing. In 2003 Comet demerged from Kingfisher Plc to form a new group under the KESA umbrella. Comet has recently undergone a £20 million rebranding campaign (since September 2005) to differentiate itself from other players in the market.. . Its focus is on giving customers the best price, best choice and best service, and has the mission statement of being "Britain's most trusted electrical specialist" The retailer has around 250 stores in the UK, often 'warehouse' style stores in retail parks.. . Like many large electrical retailers, Comet offers a Price Promise scheme that would suggest they will match or beat the price of an item sold elsewhere more cheaply. This price matching includes any and all UK retailers. Additionally they offer to match prices against local stores within a 10 mile radius, within fourteen days, however, instore they do not match prices against other online/internet mail-order companies.. . The exception, although generally not advertised, is local Comet stores will match the prices given on the Comet online webstore which are usually cheaper. With some items, such as LCD televisions, the difference between local stores and the Comet webstore can be as much as £300. Local stores will not match their own online store prices with a direct discount, rather they will make up the difference in price with Comet vouchers that can only be used in Comet stores.. . . . . . Asteroids, also called minor planets or planetoids, are a class of astronomical object. The term asteroid is generally used to indicate a diverse group of small celestial bodies that drift in the solar system in orbit around the Sun. Asteroid (Greek for "star-like") is the word used most in the English literature for minor planets, which has been the term preferred by the International Astronomical Union; some other languages prefer planetoid (Greek: "planet-like"), because it more accurately describes what they are. In late August 2006, the IAU introduced the term "small solar system bodies" (SSSBs), which includes most objects thusfar classified as minor planets, as well as comets. At the same time they introduced the term dwarf planet for the largest minor planets. This article deals specifically with the minor planets that orbit in the inner solar system (roughly up to the orbit of Jupiter). For other types of objects, such as comets, Trans-Neptunian objects, and Centaurs, see Small solar system body.. . The first asteroid to be discovered in the Solar System, Ceres, is the largest asteroid known to date and is now classified as a dwarf planet. All others are currently classified as small solar system bodies. The vast majority of asteroids are found within the main asteroid belt, with elliptical orbits between those of Mars and Jupiter. It is thought that these asteroids are remnants of the protoplanetary disc, and in this region the incorporation of protoplanetary remnants into the planets was prevented by large gravitational perturbations induced by Jupiter during the formative period of the solar system. Some asteroids have moons or are found in pairs known as binary systems.. [edit] Asteroids in the solar system.  . Left to right: 4 Vesta, 1 Ceres, Earth's Moon.Hundreds of thousands of asteroids have been discovered within the solar system and the present rate of discovery is about 5000 per month. As of September 17, 2006, from a total of 342,358 registered minor planets, 136,563 have orbits known well enough to be given permanent official numbers. Of these, 13,422[1] have official names.[2] The lowest-numbered but unnamed minor planet is (3360) 1981 VA; the highest-numbered named minor planet