He probably has an std. He may have genital herpes, genital warts, or syphilis.. . Genital Herpes. . Genital herpes, a sexually transmitted disease (STD). It is and infection caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV).. . The herpes simplex virus in the same family of viruses that causes chickenpox, shingles and mononucleosis. It can cause sores, or lesions, to appear in and around the vaginal area and within the cervix in women. In men, the sores or lesions appear on the penis and scrotum in men.. . Both males and females may also get lesions in the urinary tract, around the anal opening, on the buttocks or thighs, and sometimes on other parts of the body.. . Is Genital Herpes Deadly?. . No. But it is often physically painful and emotionally debilitating.. . People who have genital herpes may suffer from painful sores as well as feelings of shame, regret, isolation, and undesirability.. . Symptoms of Genital Herpes?. . The most common symptoms are of genital herpes itching, burning, tingling, bumps, or swelling in or around the genital area.. . Most people with genital herpes don't know they have it, and are unaware they may be spreading it to others. Many people have no symptoms or mistake their symptoms for something else.. . . . . Genital Warts. . Genital warts, are the most easily recognized sign of genital human papilloma virus (PHV) infection. Warts are benign tumors of the epidermis. Some people will have a genital HPV infection without genital warts.. . Genital warts often occur in clusters and can be very tiny or can spread into large masses in the genital or anal area.. . If left untreated, genital warts may eventually develop a fleshy, cauliflower-like appearance. In some cases, the warts may disappear. . . . . . Syphilis. . Syphilis is a complex sexually transmitted, infectious disease (STD) caused by the bacterium Treponema Pallidum. Syphilis is usually transmitted by sexual contact or kissing.. . Signs and symptoms of Syphilis. . * The time between picking up the bacterium and the start of the first symptom can range from 10-90 days. The average is 21 days. The primary stage of syphilis is characterized by the appearance of a single sore (called a chancre). The chancre is usually firm, round, small, and painless. It appears at the spot where the bacterium entered the body. The chancre lasts 1-5 weeks and will heal on its own. If treatment is not administered, the infection progresses to the secondary stage.. . * The second stage starts when one or more areas of the skin break into a rash that usually does not itch. Rashes can appear as the chancre is fading or can be delayed for weeks. The rash often appears as rough, "copper penny" spots on both the palms of the hands and the bottoms of the feet. The rash also may appear as a prickly heat rash, as small blotches or scales all over the body, as a bad case of old acne, as moist warts in the groin area, as slimy white patches in the mouth, as sunken dark circles the size of a nickel or dime, or as pus-filled bumps like chicken pox. Some of these signs on the skin look like symptoms of other diseases. Sometimes the rashes are so faint they are not noticed. Rashes typically last 2-6 weeks and clear up on their own. In addition to rashes, second stage symptoms may include fever, swollen lymph glands, sore throat, patchy hair loss, headaches, weight loss, muscle aches, and tiredness. A person infected with syphilis can easily pass the disease to sex partners when first or second stage signs or symptoms are present.