In evolutionary biology, convergent evolution describes the process whereby organisms not closely related independently acquire similar characteristics while evolving in separate and sometimes varying ecosystems.. . An example of convergent evolution is the similar nature of the flight/wings of insects, birds, pterosaurs, and bats. All four serve the same function and are similar in structure, but each evolved independently. Eyes also evolved independently in various animals.. . Convergent evolution is a different phenomenon than evolutionary relay and parallel evolution. Similar to convergent evolution, evolutionary relay describes how independent species acquire similar characteristics through their evolution in similar ecosystems, but not at the same time (dorsal fins of extinct ichthyosaurs and sharks). Parallel evolution occurs when two independent species evolve together at the same time in the same ecospace and acquire similar characteristics (extinct browsing-horses and extinct paleotheres).. . Structures that are the result of convergent evolution are called analogous structures or homoplasies; they should be contrasted with homologous structures which have a common origin.. [edit]. . Other examples. .     * Bats are actually two distinct groups, megabats (Megachiroptera), and microbats (Microchiroptera), which significant recent evidence says evolved completely separately. There is even some evidence that megabats are actually related to primates like humans, monkeys, and lemurs..     * Ironically, pterosaurs not only share convergent evolution with bats regarding flight, but also in regard to hair. Some species of pterosaur actually had hair or fur, presumably as a result of separate evolution, as the common ancestor of the archosaurs (from whence pterosaurs are thought to come) and the therapsid mammal ancestors was quite distant..     * The smelling organs of the terrestrial coconut crab are similar to those of insects..     * The aerial rootlets found in English ivy (Hedera helix) are similar to those of the wintercreeper (Euonymus fortunei) (and other vines). These rootlets are not derived from a common ancestor, but have the same function of clinging to whatever support was available..     * The Neotropical poison dart frog and the Mantella of Madagascar have independently developed similar mechanisms for obtaining alkaloids from a diet of ants, and for storing the toxic chemicals in skin glands. They have also independently evolved similar bright skin colors that warn predators of their toxicity..     * The similarities in diet and activity patterns between the thorny devil (Moloch horridus) and the Texas horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) both in different clades..     * The Marsupial Thylacine and the Placental Wolf..     * The Little Auk of the north Atlantic (Charadriiformes) and the diving petrels of the southern oceans (Procellariiformes) are remarkably similar in appearance and habits..     * Cat-like, sabre-toothed predators evolved in three distinct lineages of mammals — Sabre-toothed cats, Nimravids (false sabre-tooths), and the marsupial thylacosmilids..     * The existence of distinct families of carbonic anhydrase is believed to illustrate convergent evolution..     * The similar evolution of auks in the Northern Hemisphere and penguins in the Southern Hemisphere..     * Assassin spiders are a group comprised of two genetic lines, which apparently evolved separately. They have very long necks, fangs larger in proportion than any other spider, and hunt other spiders by snagging them from a distance..     * Honeyeaters of Oceania, Flowerpeckers of Australasia and Sunbirds of Africa evolved separately, but share the nectar-feeding lifestyle..     * The Vultures through Convergent evolution by function, (1–eating carrion and typically having featherless necks; 2–flight search by soaring), come in two varieties: the Old World vultures are in the eagle and hawk family, and use eyesight for food d