"Break a leg" is a well-known saying in theatre which means "good luck". It is typically said to actors before they go out onto the stage to perform.. . It is a theatre superstition that the phrase "good luck" is actually bad, so "break a leg" is preferred in this situation. The expression may also be used outside the theatre, in everyday use, to mean "good luck".. . [edit]. Origins of the term. The origins of the term are hotly debated, and its true origin is unknown. Breaking one's leg is certainly not a good thing to hope for - therefore perhaps by some superstition, if the "good luck" causes bad, then perhaps the perceived bad luck of breaking one's leg causes good.. . However, the most commonly perceived true meaning of "break a leg" is the wish for many curtain calls. When you bow or curtsy, you are supposed to put one foot behind the other and bend at the knee, "breaking" the leg.. . Other theories suggest that the words "break" or "leg" are not used in their literal sense. For example, some have suggested that "break" refers to the act of breaking out onto the stage, or that the "leg" refers to the legs of the audience's seats.. . Another theory suggests that the term "break a leg" is actually an abbreviation for the phrase "break a legend", which roughly means "go get yourself out there"!. . It could be a reference to the wooden legs in old curtains. If a cast were to have many encores, the curtain would be lifted and dropped untill the legs broke.. . Yet another theory is that it is be a translation from the German phrase "Hals- und Beinbruch" ("Break your neck and leg"), which comes from the Yiddish phrase "Hasloche un Broche" ("success and mercy").. . It has also been peculiarly suggested that the origin of the phrase dates back to Shakespearean days. Apparently at the time, the poor and uneducated (often slow and dimwitted, and referred to as Groundlings) unable to afford real seats, would crowd the front of the theatre, right up against the stage. Transfixed by the performance, when they got really excited the Groundlings were customarily known to drool! Prior to their performance (on a stage besieged by eager Groundlings), actors would wish each other good luck by saying, "May you give such a stirring performance that you fall on the ensuing spit of drooling groundlings, and break a leg!"