Origin. . The 12th century French thelogian Alain de Lille wrote "Do not hold everything gold that shines like gold".. . Shakespeare and others have expressed the same notion. In 1553 ,we have Thomas Becon, in 'The relikes of Rome':. . "All is not golde that glistereth.". . Shakespeare is the most well-known use of the idea. His version is sometimes transcribed as 'all that glisters is not gold'. From The Merchant of Venice:. . . MOROCCO:. O hell! what have we here?. A carrion Death, within whose empty eye. There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.. All that glitters is not gold;. Often have you heard that told:. Many a man his life hath sold. But my outside to behold:. Gilded tombs do worms enfold.. Had you been as wise as bold,. Young in limbs, in judgment old,. Your answer had not been inscroll'd:. Fare you well; your suit is cold.. Cold, indeed; and labour lost:. Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost!. Portia, adieu. I have too grieved a heart. To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.. The Saying: ALL THAT GLITTERS IS NOT GOLD. . . Who Said It: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra . . When: 1615 . . The Story behind It: In Part II of Cervantes's satire Don Quixote, Sancho Panza uses this gold aphorism while speaking to the duchess. His speech, in part, reads: "...if you don't think fit to give me an island because I am a fool, I'll be so wise as not to care whether you do or not. 'Tis an old saying, the Devil lurks behind the cross. All is not gold that glisters." While Cervantes's phrasing is quite close to the accepted version, "All that glitters is not gold," it is impossible to determine where the idea originated. As far back as the 12th century, a French philosopher and theologian, Alain de Lille, wrote, "Do not hold everything gold that shines like gold." Both Chaucer (in The House of Fame, c. 1383) and Shakespeare (in The Merchant of Venice, 1596) had versions of the aphorism. John Dryden first used the word glitters, in his poem The Hind and the Panther (1687). The line reads, "All, as they say, that glitters is not gold."