Well I could go on and on for days here.  But here are a few of my favorite ideas.... . 1)  If I'm not busy and looking for a good laugh, I keep them on the phone as long as possible.  I happen to know that most companies do not allow the telemarketer to hang up on you, YOU must end the call first.  Even if you say bye, they wait for you to hang up.  Keep this in mind.  I carry on totally unrelated conversations and keep asking the same questions over and over about prices and say what a good deal it would be.  I tell them to hang on while I look at TV and come back after a few minutes and say, "sorry I was taking a dump and had a big one...now what were you saying?"  You know, anything odd like that really cracks me up.. . 2)  Give them fake information.  A lot of times they'll say stuff like we are doing a promotion in your area and blah, blah, blah...right then you know that they don't know your name or address.  Act like you are interested as long as you can and then give them names like Fred Flintstone at 123 Bedrock Place.  Or give them an ex-bf/gf's name and number and address.  It doesn't matter if you are a guy and give them a girls name, they usually dont ask questions.  Let them get the calls from now on out.. . 3)  Act like you are interested and tell them you really want what ever they are selling and them when they ask for credit card information, tell them you filed for bankruptcy and they took all your credit cards away.  . . 4)  When people call selling magazines I ask for obscure titled pornographic magazines.  Not Playboy, Penthouse, or Hustler, ask for Juggs, or Big Butt, Barely Legal, Over 50, Muff, Black Beauties, or even ask for gay porn magazines.  That'll usually get them so flustered they won't know what to do anymore.. . 5)  If you don't have time to talk....go over to your smoke detector and press the test button....scream frantically that you have a FIRE!  Put the phone down by the TV and walk away....remember, most of the time, they won't hang up if they still hear things in the background.  I once did this and watched a movie on TV.  I came back over an hour later and they were still connected!!. . 6)  I get collection calls for someone that used to have my phone number.  I tell them to hang on, I put the phone down and wait about 3 minutes.  I get back on the phone and tell them they have a wrong number.  Usually those guys get REALLY pissed off.  Sometimes I tell them that I AM that person and that I'm never going to pay them.  I spent all my money on crack or whatever and they should take my sorry ass to court or something.  Or maybe something like I ain't paying nobody else, I haven't paid you...what makes you think I'm going to pay you now?  They hate that and make all kinds of threats.  I laugh and make fart noises in the phone.. . Like I said, I could go on and on for days here...but I hope this gives you some ideas to go on and gives you hours of entertainment the next time one calls!  Good luck!