Let me answer this the best way that I can......... I agree that there is a problem but I don't believe that it is the people selling them or doing them. I believe that it is our government for making them so appealing to those that would defy the system. . . I don't believe that marijuana is a drug as it grows out of the ground in the same way as all herbs do. The problem with marijuana is that our government scared everyone into believing that it was a gate-way drug so that they could make it illegal. Did you know, that marijuana is classified in the same catagory as heroine, cocaine, and LSD? Our country could greatly benefit from marijuana, which has a by-product called hemp. The main problem drugs out there are manufactured drugs; such as cocaine, heroine, oxyconton, morphine, and all narcotic prescription drugs.  Most of these drugs were made from plants but that's the whole point of what I'm getting at. They were made by man. Not grown out of the earth. There are going to be those that are going to disagree with me, I'm sure. I think that our government wastes too much money on criminalizing marijuana that could be spent on worse drugs. Hell, make cigarettes illegal or how about alcohol, these things have worse side effects than marijuana. . . Think about this, before you make your mind up on the subject. Do you think that children would be more apt to smoke marijuana if it wasn't illegal? Do you honestly believe that it is a gate-way drug?. . . You asked why people turn to drugs. I'll tell you why I smoke marijuana. It's safer than any other medication out there. I suffer from manic depression, obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety. None of the medication for these illnesses are free of dangerous side effects. The only side effects that I get from smoking weed is an appetite, deeper concentration, relaxation, cotton-mouth, and the occassional giggle. What is so wrong with that? I don't drive or opperate machinary while I'm stoned so the commercials about that are all propaganda. All of the other drugs are dangerous, but not this one.