Ductile-to-brittle transition    . . The notched-bar impact test can be used to determine whether or not a material experiences a ductile-to-brittle transition as the temperature is decreased. In such a transition, at higher temperatures the impact energy is relatively large since the fracture is ductile. As the temperature is lowered, the impact energy drops over a narrow temperature range as the fracture becomes more brittle.. . The transition can also be observed from the fracture surfaces, which appear fibrous or dull for totally ductile fracture, and granular and shiny for totally brittle fracture. Over the ductile-to-brittle transition features of both types will exist.. . While for pure materials the transition may occur very suddenly at a particular temperature, for many materials the transition occurs over a range of temperatures. This causes difficulties when trying to define a single transition temperature, and no specific criterion has been established.. . If a material experiences a ductile-to-brittle transition, the temperature at which it occurs can be affected by the variables mentioned earlier, namely the strain rate, the size and shape of the specimen and the relative dimensions of the notch.. . . . The ductile-brittle transition is exhibited in bcc metals, such as low carbon steel, which become brittle at low temperature or at very high strain rates. Fcc metals, however, generally remain ductile at low temperatures. . . In metals, plastic deformation at room temperature occurs by dislocation motion. The stress required to move a dislocation depends on the atomic bonding, crystal structure, and obstacles such as solute atoms, grain boundaries, precipitate particles and other dislocations. If the stress required to move the dislocation is too high, the metal will fail instead by the propagation of cracks and the failure will be brittle.. . Thus, either plastic flow (ductile failure) or crack propagation (brittle failure) will occur, depending on which process requires the smaller applied stress.. . In fcc metals, the flow stress, i.e. the force required to move dislocations, is not strongly temperature dependent. Therefore, dislocation movement remains high even at low temperatures and the material remains relatively ductile.. . In contrast to fcc metal crystals, the yield stress or critical resolved shear stress of bcc single crystals is markedly temperature dependent, in particular at low temperatures. The temperature sensitivity of the yield stress of bcc crystals has been attributed to the presence of interstitial impurities on the one hand, and to a temperature dependent Peierls-Nabarro force on the other. However, the crack propagation stress is relatively independent of temperature. Thus the mode of failure changes from plastic flow at high temperature to brittle fracture at low temperature.