Its easier said than done. the only sure way to make money in the stock market is inside information. Barring that there are some approaches that are pretty effective. It depends on your approach, aggressive or conservative. If you are conservative look for companies that are cheap and profitable and whose products/ services look to have a bright future. If you don't know what that means do some research on value stocks. . . Another approach is Fallen angels. Basically look for companies that dropped for temporary reasons such as a corrupt executive, lawsuit, or accident. But whose business is otherwise sound. examples of this are AIG, Johnson and Johnson etc. look for well known and steady companies that are in trouble in the news. But be carefull to not buy an Enron. To do this you have to understand how serious the problems are.. . A very risky approach is to buy speculative stocks. Stocks that can explode like a Microsoft. This is very high risk You basically look for very small companies with a new product or service that you think will take off. More often than not they fail so beware. but this is the best way to make big gains.. . In terms of where to get ideas for stocks? Check out investing magazines, books, newspapers, investing websites like fool.com, join an investing club, stock newsletters, online discussion boards etc. These can introduce you to stocks and you can do your own research. But to do proper research takes a long time. . . You can also invest in indexes. Basically baskets of stocks like the Dow Jones, Nasdaq, or by sector or country. Such as Oil, technology, precious metals, Europe, Emerging Markets. If you are going to invest in this type, here's a tip. Buy indexes that are down. Don't look for ones that are on an upswing. Remember buy low sell high? Most people don't do that. Thats why most people aren't good at investing. Thats called contrarianism. . . Here's a hint. Oil will continue to go up in value in the years ahead. I promise. . . Best of Luck. Remember, its a casino, but you can slant the odds a bit in your favour but you'll also need luck. Don't put all your eggs in one basket.