"The word hepatitis simply means an inflammation of the liver without pinpointing a specific cause. Someone with hepatitis may:. . have one of several disorders, including viral or bacterial infection of the liver . have a liver injury caused by a toxin (poison) . have liver damage caused by interruption of the organ's normal blood supply . be experiencing an attack by his or her own immune system through an autoimmune disorder . have experienced trauma to the abdomen in the area of the liver . Hepatitis is most commonly caused by one of three viruses:. . the hepatitis A virus . the hepatitis B virus . the hepatitis C virus . In some rare cases, the Epstein Barr Virus (which causes mononucleosis) can also result in hepatitis because it can cause inflammation of the liver. Other viruses and bacteria that also can cause hepatitis include hepatitis D and E, varicella (chickenpox), and cytomegalovirus (CMV).. . Hepatitis A. In children, the most common form of hepatitis is hepatitis A (also called infectious hepatitis). This form is caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV), which lives in the stools (feces or poop) of infected individuals. Infected stool can be present in small amounts in food and on objects (from doorknobs to diapers).. . The hepatitis A virus is spread:. . when someone ingests anything that's contaminated with HAV-infected stool (this makes it easy for the virus to spread in overcrowded, unsanitary living conditions) . in water, milk, and foods, especially in shellfish . Because hepatitis A can be a mild infection, particularly in children, it's possible for some people to be unaware that they have had the illness. In fact, although medical tests show that about 40% of urban Americans have had hepatitis A, only about 5% recall being sick. Although the hepatitis A virus can cause prolonged illness up to 6 months, it typically only causes short-lived illnesses and it does not cause chronic liver disease.. . Hepatitis B. Hepatitis B (also called serum hepatitis) is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). HBV can cause a wide spectrum of symptoms ranging from general malaise to chronic liver disease that can lead to liver cancer.. . The hepatitis B virus spreads through:. . infected body fluids, such as blood, saliva, semen, vaginal fluids, tears, and urine . a contaminated blood transfusion (uncommon in the United States) . shared contaminated needles or syringes for injecting drugs . sexual activity with an HBV-infected person . transmission from HBV-infected mothers to their newborn babies . Hepatitis C. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is spread by direct contact with an infected person's blood. The symptoms of the hepatitis C virus can be very similar to those of the hepatitis A and B viruses. However, infection with the hepatitis C virus can lead to chronic liver disease and is the leading reason for liver transplant in the United States.. . The hepatitis C virus can be spread by:. . sharing drug needles . getting a tattoo or body piercing with unsterilized tools . blood transfusions (especially ones that occurred before 1992; since then the U.S. blood supply has been routinely screened for the disease) . transmission from mother to newborn . sexual contact (although this is less common) . Hepatitis C is also a common threat in kidney dialysis centers. Rarely, people living with an infected person can contract the disease by sharing items that might contain that person's blood, such as razors or toothbrushes.. . Diagnosis. All of these viral hepatitis conditions can be diagnosed and followed through the use of readily available blood tests.. . Signs and Symptoms. Hepatitis, in its early stages, may cause flu-like symptoms, including:. . malaise (a general ill feeling) . fever . muscle aches . loss of appetite . nausea . vomiting . diarrhea . jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes) . But some people with hepatitis may have no symptoms at all and may not even know they're in