PLEASE BE FAIR AND READ ALL OF THIS . I am a Jehovah's Witness and I would like to explain this to you so you can hear it from the horses mouth so to speak. The Israelites as well as early christains were to abstain from blood.(see Gen.9:3,4 & Lev.17:11,12 & Acts 15:28,29). . You may then ask-Is a transfusion really the same as eating blood?. . In a hospital, when a patient cannot eat through his mouth, he is fed intravenously. Now, would a person who never put blood into his mouth but who accepted blood by transfusion really be obeying the command to “keep abstaining from . . . blood”? (Acts 15:29) To use a comparison, consider a man who is told by the doctor that he must abstain from alcohol. Would he be obedient if he quit drinking alcohol but had it put directly into his veins?. . You asked:'Followers of Jehovas Wittnesses..if your child needs a blood transfusion...why in the name of whoever god you pray to ,will you not allow this and let your children die?' well here is my response:. . We do allow them to have transfusions—the safer kind. We accept the kind of transfusions that don’t carry the risk of such things as AIDS, hepatitis, etc... We want the best treatment for our children, as I am sure that any loving parent would.. Now for the scientific stuff....When there is severe blood loss, the greatest need is to restore the fluid volume. No doubt you realize that our blood is actually over 50 percent water; then there are the red and white cells, and so forth. When much blood is lost, the body itself pours large reserves of blood cells into the system and speeds up production of new ones. But fluid volume is needed. Plasma volume expanders that contain no blood can be used to fill that need, and we accept these. Plasma volume expanders have been used on thousands of persons, with excellent results. There are so many advances now in the way of bloodless surgeries and blood transfusion replacements that there are now entire wards in hospitals devoted to this kind of surgery. Do your research and I think you'll find transfusions aren't all that safe. My uncle died b/c of a transfusion and deaths from this procedure happen a lot more than the medical proffessionals would care to admit. Thank you for taking the time to read all of this as I know, it's a lot to read