In the 1920's scientists Oparin and Haldane  theorized that given a planet like the early Earth, with a reducing atmosphere (ie one with no oxygen), high UV radiation, and the basic chemical elements, then it might be possible to create organic molecules from inorganic precursors.  In 1953 Miller and Urey tested their predecessors' ideas with a famous experiment that they said simulated those conditions.  Sure enough it worked.  They mixed water vapor, hydrogen, methane and ammonia and passed high-energy electrical discharges through the "soup".  Within a few days they had made several organic compounds and amino acids - the building blocks of life.  The experiments were modified and repeated and many chemicals, including all the twenty amino acids, lipids, sugars and the purine and pyramid-like bases of nucleic acids.   If oxygen gas was added, however, the processes failed. . . However the experiment, which is now sometimes repeated in school laboratories, did show that the basic organic compounds that are necessary building blocks for life could be easily synthesized from elementary materials and "natural" conditions.  Having the building blocks, though, is a long way from having the building! Imagine the building blocks of life as a tub of Lego parts, with life itself represented by a model that you may be able to build from the parts - a dune-buggy, perhaps. . . In nature, there is a solution to the dune-buggy problem.  It is DNA.  The DNA is both the plan and the means of issuing orders to make the "dune-buggy" of life.   But take away the instructions and nature is back to "tipping the tub",  just as it was before the first life appeared.  The big mystery of life is not how it is assembled, but how did the first set of assembly instructions come into being, apparently in a dumb Universe without intelligent intervention? . . Despite the initial euphoria, the Miller-Urey experiment took us no further than repeating that very question in our quest to understand how life came about.  It was, and remains, a long way from giving us the answer to the origin of life and the means to create it from first principles. . . By the 1980's ideas about the early Earth had changed and the Miller-Urey experiment was considered irrelevant.  It no longer represented the conditions of the early Earth, according to the new theories.  However now Miller and Urey's experiment is being revived, not in its original form, but in a form that mimics conditions that are thought to exist in deep space. . . Recent work by a team of scientists led by Lou Allamandola at NASA Ames Research Center at San Jose, has shown how such compounds may form from basic elements and molecules in interstellar space.    He and his colleagues created a vacuum chamber, cooled it to a very low temperature of 10 K above absolute zero - typical of interstellar space - and released into it some minute gaseous quantities of water, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and carbon-monoxide, along with some grains of sand - SiO2.. They bombarded this with ultraviolet light and to their amazement, within a short time new and complex chemicals had formed around the silicate grains.  These included ketones, formaldehyde, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), ammonia, methane, methanol, alchohols of various kinds, poly-oxymethylenes and dozens of other highly complex organic chemicals - some of which were unknown and had no name! . . What was most surprising, though, was the fact that the chemical residues formed into vesicles similar to those found in the Murchison meteorite by David Deamer.   The vesicles created in the vacuum chamber have some interesting and significant characteristics.  One end is hydrophilic and the other end is hydrophobic - they  both love and hate water!   This enables molecules to be self-organizing in the presence of water and this ability, or characteristic, is a simple sorting process that may go some way 