Introduction. . One of the most important principles of Islam is that all things belong to God, and that wealth is therefore held by human beings in trust.  The word Zakah means both 'purification' and 'growth'. Our possessions are purified by setting aside a proportion for those in need, and, like the pruning of plants, this cutting back balances and encourages new growth. . . Zakah is the amount of money that every adult, mentally stable, free, and financially able Muslim, male and female, has to pay to support specific categories people.. . This category of people is defined in surah at-Taubah (9) verse 60:. . " The alms are only for the poor and the needy, and those who collect them, and those whose hearts are to be reconciled, and to free the captives and the debtors, and for the cause of Allah, and (for) the wayfarers; a duty imposed by Allah. Allah is knower, Wise." . . Qur'an 9:60. .  Zakah is a type of wealth which is only obligatory on certain kinds of wealth, viz.: . . 1-     An’aam livestock (camels, cattle and sheep). . 2-     Gold and silver and, nowadays, paper currency. . 3-     Trade goods. . 4-     What is produced by the earth, which includes two things:. . a.     Crops and fruits. The scholars are unanimously agreed that it is obligatory to pay zakaah on four kinds: wheat, barley, dates and raisins; they differed with regard to other kinds.. . b.     Rikaaz (buried treasure), i.e., wealth of the kuffaar buried in the ground that is found by a Muslim. . . Shaykh al-Islam Ibn Taymiyah (may Allaah have mercy on him) narrated in Majmoo’ al-Fataawa (25/10) that Ibn al-Mundhir (may Allaah have mercy on him) said: . . The scholars are unanimously agreed that zakaah is obligatory on nine things: camels, cattle, sheep, gold, silver, wheat, barley, dates and raisins, if they reach the nisaab (minimum threshold) for each type at which zakaah becomes due. They differed with regard to other types of wealth. . . Zakaah for each of these kinds of wealth is obligatory subject to certain conditions, and a specific amount of the wealth must be given as defined by sharee’ah