Mormons are a group of people who believe the teachings of Joseph Smith.. He taught that he had been given golden plates with another gospel inscribed on them.. That gospel told of two different groups of Jews who had migrated to the Americas prior to the birth of Jesus Christ.. That those groups formed a culture here and became the people group we later called the American Indian.. These golden plates contained their history.. That history, now called the book of Mormon along with other wittings, which are supposed to be revelations direct from god, form the beliefs of the Mormon religion.. Some of their beliefs that differ from normal Christian beliefs include:. 1. God is a man  just a regular man who lived an exceptional life, followed all the teachings of the Mormon faith and was therefore exalted.. 2. This exalted man lives in space near a star called kolab.. 3. Through sexual union he produces millions of spirit babies who were or will some day be incarnated as men (that’s you and me) . 4. They teach that at an important meeting:.  One of his spirit children (Jesus) proposed a plan to bring men back into fellowship with himself. (A plan later known as Mormon doctrine). 5. Another of his spiritual children, Jesus' brother, (Lucifer) proposed a different plan and that was to force men into obedience.. 6.  Jesus' plan (the Mormon doctrine) was chosen. 7.  A battle between the followers of Lucifer and those of Jesus followed.. 8.   Lucifer and his followers lost and would be cast down to earth as bodiless demons.. 9.The remaining spirits were divided into two groups . a.those who had supported Jesus (they would be sent to earth to inhabit white bodies) . b.and those who remained neutral in the conflict  (who would be sent to earth in black bodies.). 10. Then God (whom they call Elohym) came to earth in bodly form, found a young virgin girl named Mary, had sex with her and produced a body for his spirit baby Jesus,. *They do not believe that Jesus is God.. *They do not believe in the trinity. *They believe that Jesus paid for resurrection of everyone not just the saved. but the price he paid had nothing to do with whether we go to heaven or hell,. * final reward or punishment depends on our works, (being a good Mormon etc.). . They act as they do because they have been deceived . They seem to be very nice people who try very hard to live up to the requirements of Mormonism (which are considerable) dietary restrictions, mission trips , monitored tithing, sacred under clothing and much much more). . They have too, because they believe in works salvation.. . 11.The benefit is, that they believe if they are good enough they will become gods, live in space, have sex and produce spiritual babies to populate another world like Elohym did.. . They are people we should love and care for and if allowed told of his grace and the free blood bought reward.. . This is intended only as an overview and oversimplifies their teachings. I apologize for any inaccuracies