listen dear, listen from someone that God showed him the truth. with the one who created my soul and my blood and everything in heavens and earth that this religion (Islam) is truly a religion sent to you by God. ur problem is not Muhammad or Islam. ur problem in understanding God. . . here are some logic:. . -translation problems. -the word son does not mean son as we understand today. http://answers.yahoo.com/question/;_ylt=Ar1MDc4sRLfo6C7bxccs0p8jzKIX?qid=20060619180449AA0Cuqv. . -trinity? . never Jesus or his followers worship trinity, but they worshiped God alone.. -1st commandment: you shall not take other gods before Me. some will say we worship only the father and believe in the commandment, but in reality they deny it. by saying Jesus is the son of God means God has partners. and Jesus is worth to be worshiped as well beside God. but the truth is God is the only one who should be worshiped and alone.. -John Paul was the only witness on translating and writing the Bible. in Islam there were number of trusted witnesses who remember the Quran and repeated to each other letter by letter so it will be very easy to see any mistake or errors. . -the ones who dare to kill Jesus son of mary. is very easy for them to mess with his book (the Bible) and kill his followers as well. however for Islam is different, the power and control was for the muslims. jewish weren't in control of Islam but muslims are.. . -Islam is true religion from God. there is no man on earth can come up with all this by himself. Islam had the same structure as how Judisim and christianity have been build. such as Laws, worship only one God. HolyBook, Angel Gibriel, day of judgement, Hell and paradise...  only God can do this. cults do not continue their religion to the fulliest. But Muhammad was trully supported by God. he is the comforter the one who will compelete the message of God. and he did. . . -God promised by his name that this book (Quran) will not be corrupted till the end of days. and we only have one Quran. count how many Bibles.