Hope this answer your question.. . Instructions for making wine from fresh grape juice.. . 1.) First you need a supplier of wine grapes (if your going to squeeze yourself) or fresh grape juice - These suppliers are only available once a year so make sure you are ready by early September up to end of October to purchase what you want. . If you know your way around the South Phila area, then you know how to get to the food distribution centers between Packer and Pattison Ave. . Two popular suppliers come to mind:. . Lorenzo Gatta of Missa Bay Co. Located at (Galloway St. & Packer Ave) . 1-800-701-6240 . ~O R~. Proccacci Bros. Sales Corp. Loacated at (N.E. Corner of Pattison Ave & Lawrence St.) . 1-800-523-4616. . 2.) Add Yeast - NO... YOU CAN'T USE FLIESHMANS BREAD YEAST. It is important to add a good quality yeast and correct type of yeast for the wine you are making. Add 1 packet of yeast for each 5 gallons of juice. Be sure the yeast is not expired, Check the packet for the expiration date. . . 3.) Add sulfite - Patasium metabisulfite is essential for making sure bad yeast cells do not spoil your wine, it also ensures a healthy activation of the good yeast cells. If you are using pre-squeezed juice as I do, It has already been sulfited at approximately 100ppm, this is a USRDA regulation for shipping and transporting purposes. There is no need to sulfite further after this stage. (My opinion).. . 4.) Ferment - Your Juice needs to come up to room temperature (if using fresh juices they come in 5 or 6 gal. buckets and are shipped from refrigerated trucks so they are freezing cold).. Store the juice in a larger (sanitary food grade container) and cover with a clean screen or cheese cloth. DO NOT COVER THE PRIMARY FERMENTOR, IT NEEDS TO BREATHE. Fermenting will cause the juice to boil violently this is a natural process of the natural sugars being eaten up by the yeast, so be sure to leave room at the top of container so you don't have any spilling over. Leave in this primary fermentor for 5-7 days, stir vigorously each day at this stage. In 5-7 days the ferment should subside down to a minor fizz.. . 5.) Rack - This is done by siphoning (with a sanitary food grade tubing, DO NOT USE THE SIPHON FROM THE AQUARIUM OR FROM YOUR GAS TANK!) from the primary fermentor to an empty Carbouy or Demijon. Make sure you discard the sediment from the bottom of the primary fermentor. You must fill this containor all the way just 1/4" below an air stopper, which you must keep attatched to prevent air and also to prevent oxidation. At this stage I always add American White Oak Chips at a rate of 1/2 pound for a 15 gallon batch. . Your wine will stay in this container (with air lock) for 1 month.. . 6.) Rack again - It would be a good idea to keep different sized carbouys handy because when you rack you will lose a bit of wine from leaving sediment behind, thus you will need smaller jugs and extra air stoppers handy. . Your wine will stay in this container (with air lock) for 3 months.. . 7.) Rack again - YES...RACK AGAIN. I cannot express the importance of racking. This process will clarify your wine and prevent autolysis or rotting dead yeast cells which will give your wine an off flavour. . Your wine will stay in this container (with air lock) for 3 months.. . 8.) Stabilize - At this point you will add 1/4 teaspoon of patassium sorbate for each 5 gallons of wine, this will prevent any further fermenting of residual sugar left behind. Using a sterile rod, stir and splash the wine vigorously to break up any carbon dioxide bubbles. Stabilizing is important because if you skip this step you may end up with a fizzy wine or worse that that the carbon dioxide will cause your corks to pop or bottles to explode on your finished wine.. Your wine will stay in this container (with air lock) for 2 weeks. . . 9.) Bottle - This is the fun, yet time consuming part. Have sanitized bottles ready. Soak your corks in water for about 2 hours or until so