I have a rabbit.  She landed here as a foster (temporary until the shelter could find her a home) and we kept her because we fell in love with her.  Still, let me tell you,  rabbits are an expensive pet to keep, if you keep them right.. . They need fresh hay (lots of it) and high quality or they get bound up and can die.  They don't just eat pellets.  To feed them right, they should have a pile of fresh greens daily. The pile of greens should be as big as the rabbit.  It has to be things like romaine (not iceburg) lettuce, endive, chickory, collard greens, kale, brocolli ( list is available on the internet) and it has be be an assortment.  Too much of one thing or another is not good for them.  In other words, even managing their diet properly is a big deal.. . The need regular vetrinary care...their teeth need trimmed, their nails need trimmed, they need spaying or neutering and shots, just like dogs and cats.  Their ears need cleaned.  The list is a lot longer than for other animals.  Most of them need to be done by a ver or professional groomer.. . They can't spend their lives in a cage.  This means rabbit proofing an area so that they can get at least four hours of out of cage exercise a day.  Rabbits have very delicate skeletal systems, so they depend a great deal on their muscles being strong to support those fragile bones.. . They are extremely social and require a great deal of attention.  They are just about impossible to place if you decide it is too much work.. . If you really think you want a rabbit, go to a pet store and buy an inexpensive paperback that details everything you will need to do to take proper care of that bunny, then give the time and expense some careful consideration.  You may decide it might be better to try to get that dog more interested in life.. . Even old dogs like to go for walks.  Dogs that just lay around are either sick or emotionally depressed.  Maybe if you showed some interest in what is already there, your parents might not think you would lose interest in something new.