Hello Brunette.... . Well, different cities, counties and states have slightly different statutes on how they handle cases and what's expected or how high the fines are.  You might try typing in the name of the state you live in and Teenage Drinking or alcohol use and see if you can look up your state's statutes  (example:  Colorado Teenage Drinking statutes or Colorado Alcohol laws or statutes). . Chances are, you will have a choice of either paying a fine or going to court with your parents to plea not guilty or try to reduce the cost of the fine.  Sometimes it can help your case if you've never been in trouble before.. . I don't "THINK" you will have any problems with your driver's license.  This wasn't related to driving, but I'm not entirely positive on that.  If you were driving, you'd surely have a revoked permit and suspension for a certain time.  Usually a year.. . You won't be suspended from school, however.  The chances of the school knowing this happened is slim unless they really check things out and even then this was something that happened off of school grounds so it's doubtful it'll affect school.. . The downfalls to this situation are that . #1 This will remain on your record.  I believe it'll be there forever.  This means that if you try to get certain jobs in the future and they do a background check, they will see this.  Same with going into the military.  Luckly this is not a really severe offence so I doubt it'll affect you severely.. #2  The fines for this can be pretty hefty but the ones who really pay out the wazoo is the adult who was holding the party and supplying alcohol.  They may very well have community service or even short jail sentence depending on their past record.. . Don't forget that EVERY choice you make in life has a result that can affect you the rest of your life, as you see in this case.  Be very careful ok?. . I know many teens disagree with the laws on drinking, drugs and other things but those laws are in place for everyone's safety and if you follow those, you'll be much more successful and run into a LOT less trouble in the future.. . Good luck to you and I hope this turns out to be a fairly minor issue, but that it also helps you make better decisions in the future.