Which blacks? Are you a doctor who's black patients refused theraputic treatment? Or do you work in a doctor's office where ALL of the your black patients have a negative view of theraputic treatment? Or maybe you work for an insurance carrier and have come across medical claims where the forms have pictures of black people pinned on them, to distingush them from patients of other nationalites. . . If I may come down to your level of ignorance for a sec.. Why are whites so quick to seek therapy rather than attempting to solve their problems on their own? Is it that they are mentally inferior and lack the mental tools to find their own resolution?. . See how stupid that question sounded? That's how stupid your question sounded to me. There are many people of different nationalities who won't seek professional help for reasons of their own. I am a black woman and I saw a mental health professional after the death of my husband. I found it to be a waste of time and money. I realized that outside help would not help me with an inside problem. No one else could either whether they were a professional or not, including the minister at my church. On the flip side, one of my coworkers (who is a black male) sees a mental health professional on a regular basis and takes a prescription of some sort for depression. From observation, I can tell that my coworker still suffers from depression because the only time I see him at all upbeat is after he's taken his medicine. I just gave you an example of at least two black people who have sought therapy. . . Also, how do you know which forms of therapy is covered by the insurance carrier? I personally know many black people who have no issue with therapy but recognizes it as being too expensive. Cost is usually the reason.. not their race, not their environment. Most insurance carriers only cover up 80% of your medical costs. The exception would be the carriers who charge huge deductibles before coverage can begin. Many times the total medical costs are paid but what about those who have trouble coming up with $250- $500 deductible?