A locust is a large GRASSHOPPER showing pronounced, density-dependent polymorphism, that is, the development of different types of individuals brought about by changes in the size, or numbers, of their population. About a dozen species in the short-horned grasshopper family, Acrididae, have evolved this capacity to change their habits and appearance according to their population density. When populations are sparse, the individuals live separate lives and migrate singly at night, like other grasshoppers. As their numbers increase, however, they respond to more frequent encounters with one another by becoming more and more gregarious, active, and conspicuous. They form mobs of "hoppers" (nymphs) and adults, which migrate by day in a uniquely itinerant mode of life, mating and reproducing as they travel. The swarming and nonswarming forms are known, respectively, as the gregarious and solitarious phases. Phase transformation occurs in stages. The solitarious phase is always present, whereas the gregarious phase appears only sporadically and only in areas where food supplies and other factors vary markedly. Under sufficiently crowded conditions, a solitarious hopper will mature into a gregarious adult, with longer wings, shorter legs, and other identifiable characteristics. As more and more of the gregarious types appear, characterized by their restless movement, migratory swarms build up. Once started, a locust plague may last for several years while generations of the swarms overrun regions in which the solitarious phase cannot maintain itself. The swarms eventually die out and scatter, leaving only the solitarious phase.. . Because of their mobility and devastating effects on crops, swarming locusts are greatly feared and difficult to control. The most famous species--the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, which roams over central and north Africa, the Middle East, and India--was mentioned in the Old Testament and even earlier.. . The periodical cicadas, family Cicadidae, whose life cycles are 13 or 17 years long, are locally known as 13-year or 17-year locusts. They are not true locusts, however, and are related to the aphids and treehoppers, order Homoptera.