I really think the happiest people in the world are those who are......HAPPY.. . Unless you the QURAN now includes a chapter where it claims Muslims MUST be happier than all the others, in which case i'd bend to Allah's will and would accept the view. We all know he's always Right.. In the meantime, could you pass on your question to the following groups of muslims?. . a) Muslims gays in all middle eastern countries, with particular reference to Turkey, Egypt, Syria and Iran?. b) All women in Middle Eastern countries, except Jordan, Lebanon, and a few others. c) Did you know in some African countries muslims adopted the non muslim practice of Infibulation, consisting in the surgical removal of the clitorid of women in order to deprive them from any source of sexual pleasure? The practice is done by an older woman without any specific tool, they just pull and cut.. d) Did you know that in other muslim countries they adopted the practice of sewing the vaginal lips always for the same reason, and that many of those women leave their country and have to undergo painful surgical interventions after that thraumatic experience?. g) did you know muslim immigrants still kill their daughters or sisters when they don't marry the men their parents tell them to marry. (see Germany, Turkey, Paksitan and several other places or simply check AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL). Did you know they burn their women to punish them or that they take them in the squares of their towns and kill them by lapidation with the participation of the whole citizenship?. h) Did you know in Saudi Arabia there is one of the highest rates of paedophilia?. i) Did you know muslims have one of the highest rates of homosexuality?. h) Did you know the highest number of rapists in Europe is made up of Muslims, which is even sadder if you consider their are still a minority in many countries?. If that's called happiness then i wonder what is to you unhappiness.. Good luck mate and God Bless you and your ideas(whoever he is)