1. Take one open bag and scoop some air into it. . . 2. Close it immediately. . . 3. Place bags into the freezer for 5 minutes. . . 4. After 5 minutes, take the bags out of the freezer and blow into the bag. . . 5. Quickly shut the bag again. . . 6. Then observe the formation of your cloud. . . 7. Record the results on a worksheet.. . . . Supplies. Large glass jar with a wide mouth, such as an industrial size pickle jar; . A sheet of rubber (a balloon that has been slit open); . A rubber band large enough to fit over the mouth of the jar; . Some chalk dust (or talcum powder); . Some cold water. . How To Make It. Wash out the jar and put about an inch (25mm) of water in the bottom. . Cover the mouth of the jar with the piece of rubber and cover with a book to hold it in place. . After 10-15 minutes, remove the book and rubber from the jar. . Drop in a spoonful of chalk dust or talcum and quickly replace the rubber over the mouth. . Wrap the rubber band tightly around the rim to keep the rubber sheet firmly in place over the mouth. . Push down on the rubber with your fist until it is depressed a little way into the jar. The air is compressed and warmed, so it is able to hold more water vapor. . After 15 seconds or so, quickly remove your fist. The air will cool, and will not be able to hold as much water vapor. This excess vapor condenses around the chalk dust, forming a cloud inside the jar. . . . Building Clouds. First, we need two basic ingredients: water and dust.. . On Planet Earth, naturally occurring clouds are composed primarily of water in its liquid or solid state. (On other planets, clouds may form from other compounds such as the sulphuric acid clouds on Venus.) Thus, we begin our recipe by collecting a sufficient quantity of water in the vapour state that we will soon transform into the liquid or solid states. The water vapour content of the atmosphere varies from near zero to about 4 percent, depending on the moisture on the surface beneath and the air temperature.. . Next, we need some dust. Not a large amount nor large particles and not all dusts will do. Without "dirty air" there would likely be no clouds at all or only high altitude ice clouds. Even the "cleanest" air found on Earth contains about 1000 dust particles per cubic metre of air. Dust is needed for condensation nuclei, sites on which water vapour may condense or deposit as a liquid or solid. Certain types and shapes of dust and salt particles, such as sea salts and clay, make the best condensation nuclei.. . With proper quantities of water vapour and dust in an air parcel, the next step is for the air parcel mass to be cooled to a temperature at which cloud droplets or ice crystals can form. And, voila, we have clouds.. . This simple recipe is a lot like cooking chicken -- you take a chicken and some spices, apply heat and after a time you have a cooked chicken. But just as there are many ways to cook chicken, there are many different ways to form clouds.. . THE PRECIPITATION LADDER . 11. PRECIPITATION . 10. DROPLET GROWTH . 9. BUOYANCY/CLOUDINESS . 8. CONDENSATION . 7. SATURATION . 6. HUMIDIFICATION . 5. COOLING . 4. EXPANSION . 3. ASCENT . 2. DIRTY AIR . 1. WATER VAPOUR . . Let us now expand our recipe and add precipitation.. Professor John Day, the Cloud Man, has taken the simple cloud recipe, added a few more details and continued it until it also makes precipitation. He calls this The Precipitation Ladder. As with our simple recipe, he begins the process with the basic ingredients of dirty air and water vapour. In Rungs 3 through 8, he takes the ingredients through several processes to form a cloud. . . Ascent and Expansion are two of the main processes that result in the cooling of an air parcel in which clouds will form. We mostly think of moving air as wind flowing horizontally across the surface. But air moving vertically is extremely important in weather processes, particularly with respect to clouds and precipitation. A