You'd think differently if you were in a situation where abortion is the only clear answer. I used to be pro life, but in 1999 I was raped by my brother's best friend, and I got pregnant. Living 9 months with a CONSTANT reminder of what happened would've made it impossible for me to deal with. I would've committed suicide if I carried the baby to term. I would never do it under other circumstances. I have two little boys today, one born out of wedlock, and still carried to term after the father left me. Imagine how you'd feel if you became pregnant from a rape. Can you honestly say you'd be able to carry the baby to term? I'm sure you're thinking "Yeah, because there's always adoption after delivery." But unless you've been raped, you can't fully understand what it does to a woman. The state of mind you're in, just isn't healthy for the baby or for you. You sink into a depression, and if pregnant, it's ten times harder to face what happened, and try to heal yourself. So you need to think of other cases in which abortion occurs before you start your preaching. Not all abortions are because someone just doesn't want the baby.. . It's sad that there's still narrowminded pinheads like you in this world. Obviously most people are disagreeing with you...not what you expected huh. In case you haven't noticed, it's the 21st century. It's sad when women of the past fought so we'd have equal rights as men, and there's women like you out in the world who are trying to take 10 steps back rather than one step forward. You might want to do some research on abortion, and how within the first three months it's a fetus, not a baby. It doesn't have functioning parts, and is in fact a parasite. And it shows how much you know about adoption agencies. My best friend is adopted and his parents treated him like sh*t compared to his brother and sister. Yeah there's the lucky ones who are placed in homes, but there's ones born with abnormalities, and are mentally retarded that no one wants. These kids grow up feeling totally unwanted. I went to school with a girl who even by graduation was going from foster home to foster home because they couldn't find her a home...all because she was blind.