Islam has a core group of fundamentalists who are trying to take over the world.  The US is NOT trying to take over the world, nor is it anti-Muslim (despite the diatribes of those on this board).  There are natural forces at work that the average person has to understand and analyze before placing blame.. . It is the nature of any group or organization to try and expand.   As it expands, it reaches a point of self-realization that it is, possibly, the perfect form for all.. Judaism went through this phase many, many years ago.  Christianity as well (many long fought battles with Islam).  Islam is only about 1200 years old, and is at a point of self-importance that requires further expansion.  The Islamic nations are growing in population far too quickly, without the economic growth to keep people working and fed.. There is an incessant need to overcome these problems by taking that which isn't theirs, or die trying.  Either outcome solves the problem, partially.. In addition, there is history - the feeling that Christianity ruined Islam's "Golden Era", when Islam was expanding rapidly and was typified by great wealth, great educational facilities, and wonderful scientific and medical advances.  This was reversed due to a series of events including the Conquest of Grenada by the Catholic King Ferdinand and ending with the defeat at the gates of Vienna.  Further indignancies were thrust upon the Islamic world as the West overthrew the Ottomans during WWI, and basically took over the Middle East.  . This was a great embarrassment for a culture rich in history and pride.. . That said, Islam, in general, is not trying to conquer the world.  Islamic fundamentalists are.  These are the progeny of the Wahhabists who, via the House of Saud, were given great power and leeway within Saudi Arabia and practice a form of Islam that is both highly conservative and extremely violent.. Other forms of this type of Islam have existed for years and had similar violent forms.  The River War in the Sudan between the British and a group of insurrectionists is one example.  There are many others.. . Islamic fundamentalists, recognizing their lack of economic power and manpower, have resorted to terror tactics to achieve their goals.  They cannot fight toe-to-toe with the West, so the best solution is to fight an assymetrical war - one that is very hard for either side to win - in the hopes that the West will tire and abandon their quest.  This is similar to the tactics employed by the VietCong...but the political environment was very different.. . In the end, it is unlikely Islamic fundamentalists can win.  Kamikaze tactics are certain way to lose, because you can't recruit easily when your main selling tactic is death.  Besides, as Patton said ". No bastard ever won a war by dying for his country. He won it by making the other poor dumb bastard die for his country. '. . http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/authors/g/george_s_patton.html. . . BTW, the book "End of Times" and ANY predictions involving world war and the WTC are utter nonsense.  Islam predicts nothing anymore than the Book of Revelation predicts anything (it doesn't, it was written as an allegory for Roman harassment of Christians...most religions have similar writings).. . Anyone who thinks these things is ignorant and poorly informed and needs to give up their tunnel vision and take a wider view of the world.. . BTW, Bush didn't start anything.  He's not a great leader, but he's not a monster.  He certainly is not looking for a fight.  If he WAS anti-Muslim, then he would have attacked Iraq and Afghanistan unprovoked.  But he didn't.  And if you don't think Iraq provoked the US, then you haven't seen the documents coming out recently, which have only JUST been translated.