I was born into a holiness background with a father who was a holiness preacher.  My younger days were spent in Bible study with my father.  I was taught to back everything up by the word of God.  Many times we would visit various churches, but I was always taught not to take what preachers say at face value, but to back it up with the word!. It is important to have a spiritual leader!  Don't get me wrong!  But it is essential that your leader be someone that preaches from the word, doesn't try to make you believe something that is not biblically founded, and is led by the Holy Spirit!. I have a pastor like that now and I love him to life (not death!) but believe me- if he starts to get off, it will be time for me to go!. . You shouldn't 'choose religions'.  You should read and study the Word of God and come to a knowledge of the truth and you should ask God to lead you to a church home that teaches the full unadulterated word of God- a church that is not political or out to steal your money, but that is lead by a pastor who is truly in it to look out for your soul.  Why is this important?. . . Jeremiah 3:15 (Whole Chapter) . And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.. Ephesians 4:11 (Whole Chapter) . And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;. Romans 10:14 (Whole Chapter) . How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?. Hebrews 13:17 (Whole Chapter) . Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.. Hebrews 10:25 (Whole Chapter) . Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching. . If you seek the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth and you ask the Lord to lead you, He will do just that.  He never mentions denominations in His word.  You have to be a Christian FIRST based on what you know is the truth and then be led to the right place of worship.. . was I clear???. I hope this helps.