There is no difference if you are talking about the government run programs which the Democrats are trying to push on us. The Democratic Party has been taken over by the Socialists just like the Republican Party has been taken over by the Religious Right. Neither represents the majority opinion of the American people. Look at any banana republic with its socialist dictator and tell me if you think socialized anything is right for America. Look at the former Soviet Union with its long lines to purchase the necessities of life at the one government owned store. - if those necessities were even available since the workers had no incentive to produce them. The heart of Socialism is the idea that wealth (or poverty) should be distributed equally. So the worker will get his or her share of the pie whether he produces needed goods or not. The story goes that a man was looking through a store in a European country and complained to the store owner, "Look at the price of a loaf of bread." " In my country stores would not be allowed to charge prices like that." To which the store owner replied, " Well, why don't you buy bread in your country then?" The shopper replied, "Oh, there are no bakers in my country !" The next time anybody tells you that this country has the best health care in the world, the problem is that some can't afford it, think of the baker. Under socialized medicine if you are dying you will have to stand in long lines waiting for health care. If it is even available the doctor is working only because the government forced him to go where he was needed. There is a slim possibility that the health care industry will come up with its own plan of wide if not universal coverage. The rest of the slack could be taken up by private charities. I have heard something to this effect. Wal - Mart is already moving in that direction with it's lower cost drugs. If that does take place it will not be socialized medicine because it will not be a "Redistribute the wealth" scheme of the government but will be run by the private sector - the people.