Mankind has always seek to explore new lands, from the very first moment the first humans left Africa discovering new lands and spreading all around the world. It's always been a drive. The Europeans began exploring the world, first because they had the means (new advances in seafaring, cartography, ship-building) that allowed them to go further away than any other civilization before, and because they had the need to do so. They were seeking, primordially, new trade routes to reach the Indies, established some colonies or factories there and trade spices, silk and other luxury products directly with the natives, instead of dealing with the turks and the arabs, who were the intermediaries of this profitable trade. Up to the XV century, all this trade was carried out by  the Italian republics in the mediterranean sea, dealing with arabs. The mediterranean was the very center of trade and civilization but, by that time, the Ottoman Turks were getting very powerful, they conquered Constantinople (1453) and destroyed the Byzantine Empire and put an end to the so much needed trade with the christians. They began building a formidable navy, expanding through the Balkans and Northern Africa. The Mediterranean had become then a dangerous sea, rid by piracy, and the traditional trade routes were no longer available. That marked the beggining of the decadence for the Italian republics, like Genoa or Venice and for the Mediterranean as the economic center of civilization. The westernmost European countries, specially Portugal and later Spain, began then to explore the Atlantic looking for a new way of reaching the Indies, bypassing the turks and also, they were looking, along with France, England or the Holy Roman Empire, for new allies in the East to fight against the Turks. That was something that had been tried before, by explorers like Marco Polo, and others that were sent in as christian ambassadors to the christians of Ethiopia, and to the Mongol Khans to try and forge an alliance against the Muslims and the Turks in particular, since they were fierce rivals. The portuguese were doing great progress in their atlantic eplorations, they reached Cape of Good Hope and soon the were able to navigate to India and Indonesia. But by that time, Columbus who was looking for a direct link with China and India sailing right across the Atlantic, instead of circunnnavigating Africa, accidentally discovered a new world that, as time proved, had much more to offer than the East Indies.