I am happy that you have celebrated something so dear to you in your daughter's life.  . . You are asking about credobaptist (believer's) and paedobaptist (infant) Protestants?. . Hmmmm...for us it is something of an in house debate.  But here is a somewhat simplified perspective on the subject.  (I know there are others who can do better job than I can.). Protestants do not, historically,  believe that baptism and salvation are the same thing, rather that for one group it is the profession of salvation and for the other that it is an inclusion in the covenantal community and that, by God's grace, a profession of salvation will come later.  . . The credobaptist thought comes from a concern that people would equate baptism with salvation (already suggested this above).  It is a valid concern.  Much, though not all, of their discussion points come from the New Testament.  They will generally require another baptism should an adult, who was baptized as an infant, come to them seeking membership in their congregation.  . A paedobaptist sees scripture as one long revelation of God's covenant with His people.  Both Old and New Testament are cited in defence of their postition.  They would say that a child is born into the Covenant Community, salvation is between the child and God, but the community is responsible to help the parent's instruct the child. (Think a sort of spiritual circumcision.)The concern here is that a believer's baptism might be construed as a work of salvation.  (Which it has been by some.) Baptism is not equated with salvation, either.  This group will accept the infant or believer's baptism of any professing Christian wishing to join their congregation.. . You see that in both "camps" there is agreement that baptism and salvation (born again) are not the same thing.   It is more a discussion of mode and motive.  On this we can agree to disagree (I grant it can get heated, but then many families have those sorts of discussions, don't they).. . Most importantly what both groups do agree on is the source of our salvation...the finished work on the Cross of Jesus Christ.  That Jesus is one part of a Triune Godhead.  We can agree that "...If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.  For it is by believing in your heart that you are made right with God, and it is by confessing with your mouth that you are saved..." Romans 10:9-10 (New Living Translation, not my favourite but the one at hand).