If you want to be popular, I wouldn't kill anyone.  You'll just end up in prison, and that's no fun.  You're a girl, so you could always go the slut route.  Many an unpopular girl has reached great heights using the time-tested spread-legged method.  Alternatively, you could go the "I'm waiting for marriage" route.  This will drive guys crazy once you get old enough and virgin chicks become fairytale creatures.  . . Also, consider the fact that the guy you want to kill might actually like you.  If you want to control your rage, try breaking things.  Collect old crap that nobody wants anymore, go out in your back yard, and smash the hell out of it.  This is much better than hurting yourself or others.. . You're only a loser if you think you are.  I know that sounds lame, but I'm serious!  Self-image goes a long way, a lot further than people realize.  Watch the movie Hitch if you've never seen it before.. . And finally, be patient.  You're growing up, life sucks sometimes, but it'll get better eventually.  Try religion if you haven't already.  You'd be suprised how far that can take you.  Getting involved with that will help you meet people, and friends can help you get through anything.  It doesn't even have to be religion.  Try volunteer work or something, you'll meet new people, and you'll be helping out at the same time.  You won't have as much time on your hands to sit around and thing about life sucking.. Like I was saying before, you need to be patient.  Things will come around eventually, just don't do something major that you can't undo.  You have a lot of life to live, and you shouldn't let some random idiot stand in your way.  Think to the future, imagine rocking your babies to sleep, sending them off to their first day of school, becoming a grand-parent.  Childhood teasing will seem so insignificant in the years to come.  There are better people around who understand what it's like to grow up.  Hell, talk to your parents about it sometime, they've been there too.  They weren't always so old and so lame.  Anyway, if you're having trouble now, just hang in there, it'll make you a better person.