If you follow these tips you will lose weight.. . as far as abs go you should do 200 sit ups a day and reduce your fat intake even if you have perfect abs but have a lot of fat over it then you will not be able to see them so along with this reduce your fat intake and do more running than weight lifting.. First of all your body can healthly lose only 2-4 lbs a week. Also i would not reccomend one of those diet books or programs because once you lose the weight you will go back to doing what you did before and gain it all back.. Here is what you need to cut out of your diet or limit.. -sodas they are empty calories and just add fat.. -also juices try to limit 1 cup of o.j. has as much sugar as a can of soda.. -fast food. they provide no nutrients and terrible meals they do have healthly selections at all fast food stores if you pic those you will do much better. . -junk food is also empty calories its ok now and then just don't over do it.. Here are foods that you can indulge on.. -veggies since they are so healthy for you and provide you with many nutrients the calories in them are meaningless.. -water!! you should drink64oz. a day at first you will pee alot but then you will get used to it.. -when eating meat try to eat chicken because it is the best.. other tips. - try to have baked foods not fried.. -eat breakfast and try to have it mostly be complex carbs like oatmeal and wheat bread they will give you energy all throughout the day.. -don't skip meals when you do your body thinks it is being starved so it will hold in more calories instead of burning them.. WORKING OUT. you need to buy some weights or go to a gym and work on increasing your muscles. because that will increase you resting metabolic rate which is how many calories you burn while simply doing nothing and you will see weight loss just from that also doing 50-100 squats(5-10min) will help increase muscle in your legs.. running is also a good way to help your overall apperience.. and pilates is a good way to tone your body a simple pilates tape done three times a week along with weights and you will see a difference.. . go online and find some healthy meal recipes and use them try to reduce the number of calories you take in daily but not by too much.. hope this helps you.