Okay, this is one more time I see people professing to be intelligent, well-informed individuals jumping to conclusions.  Where on this green earth do these people get ideas?  What churches are "afraid?"  Everyone I've spoken to has read the book or watched the film and followed the controversy with some humor.. . At best, this fiasco can be compared to a situation years ago by Orson Welles' "War of the Worlds."  For goodness sake, people actually tried to commit suicide because of the panic it created.  Too many times, children and people with limited reasoning abilities are bombarded with movies, TV shows, books and even magazine materials that are based on fiction and cannot grasp that fact.  I think there's a lot of concern by some for that reason, and there are those who wish it banned because it is offensive to their beliefs. . . I am a Christian.  I spent a couple of hours this morning looking at the YA forum message board and have to tell you, I came away wondering how we haven't managed to completely blow ourselves up yet.  I read people griping about "how to DEAL with creationists," "why does YA put up with people who continually do nothing but bash religious groups, Christians, Jews, Islam?", Why can't YA keep individuals from "making statements instead of asking questions," oh, and let's not forget one individual who told someone from another country entirely that our US Constitution overides their opinion of whatever the answer was to the question.  . . The long and short of it is that we Americans live in a country where we have been given freedom of speech, exchange of ideas, and beliefs, but I was also raised that my RIGHT to that freedom stops when it infringes of another person's same freedoms.  Oh, and I was taught in school that these freedoms apply to OUR constitution, not the rest of the world!!  I answered a question recently about our youth feel "entitled."  Read some of the rest of the answers on these questions and ask yourself, where DO they GET those ideas?  We have become a nation of angry, ungrateful, complaining, opinionated, selfish and discompassionate people who feel the necessity to always be right and have the last word.  . . The only people who are going to get all caught up in this book and movie and the ensuing verbal attacks are the same people who "hit and run."  They make barbs at this race, that belief, etc, with no seemingly substantial reason or evidence to corroborate their comments.  There will be some negative results to follow, but there will also be others who question what they see.  I am praying that the true believers out there will not merely take a defensive stance but will use it as an opportunity to clarify misconceptions.