HDTV means it has a built-in OTA (Off The Air) HDTV Tuner.  This means the set can, typically with antennae, tune in any HDTV programming you have floating around on your local air waves (if any).  If you live in the boonies, these are essentially worthless unless you have a BIG antennae. :-)  However, in a city you could be able to pick up potentially quite a few HD channels.. . HDTV Ready means the tuner is not in your unit.  HD formats can be rendered (1080i, 720p, 480p), but there is no tuner to receive them OTA.  If you want to watch OTA HD programming you will need to buy an external tuner.  This tuner will then plug into your HD Component Inputs in older HD sets, and in newer sets may plug into the HDMI / DVI port.  Some tuners have multiple output types.. . If you plan on receiving your HD content from the cable company, DirectTV, Dish, Voom, etc. then this is a non-issue.  Using one of those providers means you need their box.  It used to be in the old days this meant you would then only consider the HD sets w/o tuners so you could save a few bucks.  These days the price of the tuner doesn't greatly affect the overall price of the unit.. . The recent development and exception to this is if you are using a Cable Company HD and it is a standard service (non-premium), then newer HD's with QAM tuners built-in can actually watch cable HD channels without a box!. . So what does all this mean?. . - if you live in an area with decent OTA HD programming, get a set with a tuner built in if you can.. - if you plan on using cable, first check with cable company to see if QAM will work. If so, try to get a set with QAM tuner support.  This will save you the box rental fee per month.  However, if you want premium channels for that set you'll probably still need the box.. - if you plan on using DirectTV, Dish, Voom, etc. then HDTV vs. HDTV-Ready has no real impact on you.. . The bottom line is the tuner is a relatively unimportant and cheap part compared to a good HDTV.  Don't let the tuner or lack of make the decision for you.  Other considerations like raw tech LCD vs. DLP vs. Plasma and what works best for you are far more important.  Go with what looks great and fits within your budget before anything else.