The pursuit of power is not necessarily the reason politics is a dirty game, in fact it is more complex. For instance, (Politics in Democracy) proponents of the school of thought that believes politicians are dirty, amoral, manipulative crooks do not take into consideration the crucial factors which affect politicians exceedingly while campaigning. Politicians do not base election promises on socio-economic and political factors in 5 years but rather upon the basis that necessary change comes about from this very moment. To elucidate, I as a politician, will not debate health care based on how the condition of the economy in 5 years, or in fact even 1 year but of it's condition today. Similarly, I will not propose changes to the education system based on the figures of academic institutions (average GPA, #of students, childcare, etc) next year but right now. This of course presents a problem if those currently in power to do accurately present how their proposed budget affected these sectors in society. This is intrinsic of a democracy, however in other states it is the concentration of power that leads to corruption "Absolute Power Corrupts Absolutely" - Lord Acton. Now this may lead you to believe that the G.Bush fits this description, however, the truth remains that the American political system has a tripartite system of checks and balances. Any decision made by the President is not ultimate but can be veto'd by other sectors in government. Furthermore, politics is very difficult to discuss in terms of being two dimensional; bad or good. Consider international politics, 3rd World countries are granted aid either from developed nations or international financial institutions in the hope that aid will stimulate the economoy as well as improve the quality of life of those who live in that specific underdeveloped state. This is a good thing is it not? But, the fashion in which this aid is distributed is questionable. To think of this as two dimensional presents difficulty since the application of an item like aid to undeveloped nations is not necessarily the same throughout. Historically, nations in Asia have used this aid for the benefit of the nation (good) and others like those in Africa constantly see the abuse of this aid for militaristic applications (bad). LoL I don't plan to write more because I do believe that politics is a complex game but not necessarily dirty. There are sometimes ideologies that individuals have that clash with those of others and this gives the appearance of dirtiness because of the use of violence or force in order to adress a crisis....I have lots more to write!! HAHAHA