Blue Bayou Monte Cristo Sandwich. . CURRANT JELLY SAUCE . 12  ounces red currant jelly  . 1  tablespoon water  . 1  tablespoon half-and-half  . FRUIT COMPOTE . 1 (12  ounce) jar red currant jelly  . 1 (15  ounce) can peaches (or your choice of canned fruit. I like peaches)  . BATTER . 2/3  cup water  . 1  small egg  . 1/2  teaspoon salt  . 1/8  teaspoon white pepper  . 2/3  cup all-purpose flour  . 1 3/4  teaspoons baking powder  . SANDWICHES . 8  slices white bread  . 4  roasted vegetarian turkey pieces or cooked vegetarian chicken pieces, cut in half to 1/4-inch thickness  . 4  slices tillamook swiss cheese (1 ounce each sandwich)  . 8  slices tempeh bacon, cooked (or your favorite vegie bacon, such as Morningstar Farms, etc.)  .  vegetable oil, for frying  . GARNISH .  confectioners' sugar, for dusting  .  fruit, compote  .  currant jelly, sauce  . . NOTE: I used Morningstar Farms "chik patties", but Tofurkey deli mock turkey slices would work, too as would mock ham deli slices for the bacon. . CURRANT JELLY SAUCE: Combine jelly, water and half and half in blender and mix until smooth. Makes about 3/4 cup. . FRUIT COMPOTE: Combine your favorite fresh and canned fruits and chill well. Yield is about 1/2 cup per person. . BATTER: Place water, egg, salt, and pepper in a bowl and using an electric mixer, mix well at low speed. Add flour and baking powder and mix until batter is smooth. Chill. . SANDWICHES: Make 4 sandwiches, putting cheese between vegie bacon and mock chicken cutlet. Cut into fourths and put a toothpick through each quarter. . Heat about 6" of oil to 340 degrees in a fryer. Dip sandwiches in batter to cover all surfaces. Deep fry sandwiches until golden brown, turning as needed. An alternate way of frying it to put approximately 1/4" oil in a large pan and fry the sandwiches on both sides until crispy and brown. . Remove from oil and take out toothpicks. Drain on paper towel to remove excess oil. Sprinkle sandwiches with confectioners' sugar. Serve with fruit compote and currant jelly sauce.