Grace unto you, and peace,. from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.. . As to Methodists, it's the same as with Pharisees:. beware their leaven, not the Pharisee or Methodist.. They still law impute sin, and for the hell of it.. . I found a Methodist minister who closed with concupiscence. When challenged privily about it he admitted he'd never heard of evil concupiscence. When challenged to the face thrice, he finally admitted (privily) he knew their problem was legalism, as shown me in a written letter from his head office, which also noted he should NOT do anything about it except to use old folks money to attract more youth by modernizing the music. In other words don't dare tell the truth, as it may hinder the inflow of $$$.. . In my observations many went forward on a regular basis,. but none of these were ever set "free" of their legalism.. . As to their apostles creed, it only acknowledges the Creator, not the Maker (the God of all grace make you perfect), nor what's made of such created and made things, especially what they're made: a proselyte: twofold: more the child of hell(law) as noted in Mt 23, by their continued adherance to "sacrifice", which is "of the law", which is what God notably never desired nor ever took pleasure in (Ps 40:6; 51:16; Hos 6:6; Mt 9:13; Heb 10).. . Not to mention virgins don't conceive nor bear children.. Mother of Jesus was "overshadowed" by the "Holy Ghost",. which is to say so also has many a nun been by a priest.. . Neither does their creed or methodology acknowledge that eternal salvation and peace with God are notably "through" Jesus -> Christ, and it's "Christ" thereof who's both risen and seated right, for Paul says so; But it's "Jesus" (who notably brought "division, and not peace", also plays 2 parts in Jn 5) whom Stephen saw "standing" right in Acts, which notably got him both cast out and stoned to death.. . Dah Quiz: We are the body of. a) Jesus. b) Jesus Christ. c) "Christ": "the end of the law" . . "To wit": that God was in "Christ" reconciling the world, and notably by NOT law imputing any sin unto them: 2Cor 5. For law imputed sin notably makes sinners all, not to mention sin, when it is finished, brings forth death to all.. . Dah Quiz: source and strength of sin is. a) smoking. b) drinking. c) "the law". . As to ascended, Christ first ascended to the right side of law/grace in the heavens(higher than the earth), and later ascended higher into heaven(higher than the heavens) to appear in the presence of God, and notably for "us" (of them vs them/us) to whom God hath given the victory, which is the Lord is notably longsuffering unto "us-ward".. . Dah Quiz: law is . a) what God is: perfect & merciful. b) ministration of righteousness. c) "the ministration of death" . . As to coming judgment, the only judgment other than all are righteous in Christ (in him is "no sin") because "there is no respect of persons with God", it got abolished along with the law is "abolished", "done away", the old "put off" to "put away", "taken out of the way", in order to "establish" eternal salvation and eternal life by grace.. . Law - press DELETE to take away. Grace - press SAVE to establish. . Geeze folks, hell-o, it's been AD-> for over 2,000 yrs.. . The "grace" of our Lord Jesus->Christ with you->all. Amen.