It should be understood there are different authors in every book of the Bible.  It is because of this that there are different literary styles.. . The Bible is not 100% accurate but, there are some things to take into consideration before declaring the Bible an invalid source to believe in. You ask a lot of good questions. . . There are some problems with the Bible and errors. Please remember, the Old Testament was passed down by oral tradition before the technology of writing was available. Compared to the Quran which existed long after the technology for writing was invented. So, yes there are errors. . . Secondly, there are different ways to interpret based upon the "literary forms" of writers. Depending whether it is in a historical context, prophetic, poetry, or some other type of literary form. I believe Jesus Christ IS THE WORD of God. The Bible is written by people inspired by God.. . If you took a Bible course and discovered what SCRIPTURAL TYPOLOGY is you would be amazed. If you knew what SALVATION HISTORY was in the Bible you would understand. If you recognized DIVINE AUTHORITY you would know that there has to be someone in authority to reveal the "secret" truths God has given. If you research all those phrases you will begin a journey of discovery that will last a life time. . . We have a saying in Catholicism: the New Testament is hidden in the Old and the Old is revealed in the New. There are many mysteries contained in the Bible that I have been amazed at discovering for the past 20 years and there is a whole lot more. St. Jerome said: Ignorance of Scripture is ignorance of Christ. The whole Bible is about our SALVATION: Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ fulfilled over 300 prophesies in the Old Testament about the Messiah you can discover 50 of them in cd's IT IS WRITTEN.. . WHEN YOU HAVE BEGUN TO DISCOVER THESE THINGS YOU WILL KNOW IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO HAVE BEEN WRITTEN BY MAN. Jesus (a historical figure along with others in the Bible that are not fictitional characters) by fulfilling just 50 prophesies makes the odds of doing that 10X135 power! An astronomical figure that could not have been achieved by human means.. . The thing that might shock you and others is that SATAN used scripture to tempt Jesus. So, too Satan will use scripture to trip us up from following the true faith. This is why there has to be DIVINE AUTHORITY that passes from the Old Testament to APOSTOLIC SUCCESSION in the New Testament. This is why someone cannot Authoritatively pick up a Bible and correctly interpret it nor can there be millions of interpretors to HOLY SCRIPTURE. There can only be one!