Because smoking is NOT cool. . . Smokers (male and female) have bad breath, taste bad, and have stained, yellow teeth. Smoking also ruins your skin. Look at older smokers and you'll see what I mean: their skin is usually quite wrinkled and has a "flat" look to the skin due to the breakdown of underlying tissue and collagen, mking them look even older than non-smokers the same age. (Drinking liquor adds to the dehydrating effect and makes it worse.). . Most smokers hair and clothing smell of cigarette smoke. Their cars and homes also smell. The smoke stays in fabric and carpets. The smoke stains the walls.. . Cigarette smoking is most unattractive because it shows that the person has a self-destructive habit. It shows "weakness". It shows the choice they have made. Please don't tell me a person who is addicted to cigarettes can't stop themselves, because they can get help. It's an excuse to avoid dealing with it; just as smoking is a behavior that goes hand-in-hand with "avoidance" and procrastination patterns. Smoking is about "not dealing" with things. So it's that action of smoking that tells me much about a guy.. I don't date guys that smoke mainly for that reason: I am not attracted to someone who is self-destructive, and I certainly don't want a man who is avoiding, procrastinating, and not dealing with people, situations,etc., in his life.. . It also shows someone who does not take care of their own health. I like healthy, fit men. I take care of myself. I don't want to breathe second-hand smoke. I also don't want to marry someone who smokes because the chances of him getting heart disease, cancer and/or emphysema are very high. Aging is tough enough on the body without abusing it!   I want a man who is taking care of himself NOW. Life with a smoker could easily mean a future of smoking-related health problems...if he lives that long! Sorry, but I would rather have a husband I can do things with and grow old with.. . So, I can't speak for all girls, but those are the reasons why I don't like guys who smoke.. . If you smoke, please do yourself a favor: QUIT NOW. . . Good luck!