Let's start in Genesis.  When God created man he said, "Let us make man in OUR image, in OUR likeness."  Who was he talking to?  And if we were made in God's image, why don't we look like the trinity?  These same words were used when 'Adam begat a son in his own image, after his own likeness'  So did Seth look like Adam, or is it still metaphorical?  Also when the tower of Babel was being built God said, "Let US go down, and there confound their language.". . In John Jesus says a few interesting quotes.  He says, "If I honor myself, my honor is nothing.  It is my Father who honors me, of whom ye say that he is your God.".   He also says, "If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.  There is another who bears witness of me..."  In both cases he speaks of the Father bearing witness of him, and honoring him.  Can you imagine the implications of him BEING the Father!??  It would make him a fraud according to his own arguement.. .   Finally, the trinity teaches the Father does not have a body...that he is 'the invisible God' Yet, Moses spoke to him face to face, as a friend speaketh with another.  Isaiah claimed to see God!  While Steven was being stoned he looked up and claimed to see the Son standing on the right hand of the Father.  While discussing this with certain protestants, they have told me that it never said Steven actually 'saw' the Father...but if he did not see the Father, how did he know Jesus was standing on his right hand?. . In John it says God is a Spirit.  This has been evidence for many that the trinity is a true concept, but let's examine this scripture more closely.  It doesn't say God is a spirit, it says he is a Spirit.  Notice the difference?  The S on spirit is capitalized (in almost every translation of the Bible), which means THE HOLY SPIRIT (not a being without a body).  This scripture is saying The Holy Spirit is God, according to the last Protestant I spoke with.  So you could read it to say God is God (if the words are interchangable).  But it doesn't say that does it?  It says God is 'a' God.  Also the hebrew word used for God in the Old testament is Elaheim which is a plural noun.  It literally says The Gods created the heaven and the earth.. . There are several other proofs as well that the trinity is fraudulent.  For instance, something as simple as food can disprove the trinity.  Feel free to email me at Flournoi@yahoo.com and I would be happy to send you some of my documents, such as Food vs. The Trinity and The Godhead; Evidence of Three Seperate Beings.