They aren't. . Rhetoric vs Reality.  . By now you've all seen the Democrats' campaign slogan: .  . "A New Direction For America -- Vote DEMOCRATIC!"* .  . Let's analyze this empty and misleading promise. .  . The stock market is at a new all-time high and America's 401K's are back. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Unemployment is at 25 year lows. A new direction from there means what??.  . Oil prices are plummeting. A new direction from there means what??.  . Taxes are at 20 year lows. A new direction from there means what??.  . Federal tax revenues are at all-time highs. A new direction from there means what?? .  . The Federal deficit is down almost 50%, just as predicted over last year. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Home valuations are up 200% over the past 3.5 years. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Inflation is in check, hovering at 20 year lows. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Not a single terrorist attack on US soil since 9/11/01. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Osama bin Laden is living under a rock in a dark cave, having not surfaced in years, if he's alive at all, while 95% of Al Queda's top dogs are either dead or in custody, cooperating with US Intel. A new direction from there means what?? .  . . Several major terrorist attacks already thwarted by US and British Intel, including the recent planned attack involving 10 Jumbo Jets being exploded in mid-air over major US cities in order to celebrate the anniversary of the 9/11/01 attacks A new direction from there means what?? .  . Just as Bush had planned and foretold us of on a number of occasions, Iraq was to be made "ground zero" for the war on terrorism -- and just as Bush said they would, terrorist cells from all over the region are alighting the shadows of their hiding places and flooding into Iraq in order to get their faces blown off by US Marines rather than boarding planes and heading to the United States to wage war on us here. A new direction from there means what?? .  . Moreover, bear in mind that all of the above occurred in the face of the 1999 tech crash, the epidemic of corporate scandals throughout the 90's, and the 9/11/01 terrorist attacks on NYC years in the planning which collectively sucked 24 trillions dollars and 7.8 million jobs out of the US economy even before G. W. Bush had time to unpack his suitcases in the White House. .  . It's easy for the Democrats to attempt to discredit, disgrace and defame our commander in chief, George W. Bush -- that's what they do. What's not so easy for them to do is to refute irrefutable facts, no matter how they might try. .  . . Do yourself and this country of ours a favor and don't be a mindless sheep or a blind liberal lap dog, bent on hate and blame-shifting simply in the name of hate and blame-shifting. Take heed of reality, use your head and cast your vote wisely in the upcoming elections. The stakes are far too high today, as America's very future, and yes, even its very survival is now at stake.