I think it is sterotyping, people of other races like Caucasians, Blacks, French Americans, Dutch Americans and so on always think Chinese and other Asians are always very good on math and science. But that is not always true, there are Asians that are not good with math and science. In my view that will come in the area with some that are Amecican Born Asians, not those that are born in Hong Kong, China, Philippines, India, Vietnam, Japan, Laso, Korea and so on, and immergrated to America. I'm ABC and math and science are not my best area. When I was in middle school and high school , I had to take Special Ed math class, in that department they did not even have levels beyond basic math,so there was no special ed math classes that are peralgebra, algebra and so on. It was not just that, I was also in Special Ed english class. The race that you see alot more in Special Ed classes are Blacks. Asians and Caucasians are tired with the same amount being in those classes and having a Special Ed counselor. My friends who are also ABC that was with in those classes in high school, but with different Special Ed counselor, in their last year of high school, their counselor put them in aa ESL class like Civcs/Econ. Sometime  a Special Ed counselor do put a student in non special Classes when they think they are good enough or should give it a try, like higher level high school math. Once a student has Special Ed counselor it stays with them. In order for any student to be in this type classes and have regular counselor, it doesn't just appear one day saying you need it. I thinke like daring 1st-5th grade, sometime then there are testings are done, and maybe a regular test the whole school takes does not come out so good that would ask for those kind of testing to see.So not all Asians can be automatically label Asians as smart. Also can't always sterotype Asians as very good in Math and science. Because not all Asians major in an area of science that will take them to working for a biotech company, or Civil Engineering. Some Asians like to major major in Econ, Computer Science, Public Health, Lawyer(business, immergation), accounting(motsly HKers, as most ABC sees it), business(hospitality, MIS), Computer Engineering, creative writing, animation, the major that will bring them to working in the crime lab and other stuff.  .   On another thing Asians are always used as "Model Minority" by other races and it is always saying how Asians make it without any help here in America why can't you do that. I don't know and can't remember which race or races do that. So for me Math and Science are not my strong points, but I don't hate them at all..   If you like know about sterotyping Asians, the "Model Minority", Occupation Ghettolisasion and other thing you should take a Asian American Studies class at your local college. At CCSF there is a Asian American Studies class called ASAM 20 Asian Amer Exprnc Since 1820, that is the class I took and it will tell you all those stuff and other things, it a good class.