This is not a simple question or issue, and there is not a simple answer. Each individual is at a certain level of growth, mentally, maturally, and spiritual. Some just do not have the level of growth to even see that cheating benofactors is wrong, while others who are grown enough to recconize the wrongness of doing so are not grown enough to understand what cheating benofactors regardless of the wrongness will do to their growth. There are individuals who have resentments toward the person or institution or orginization who is assisting them. They are not grown enough to have a true understanding that these individuals or groups or institutions do not have to assist them, that they are receiving the assistance do to the growth level of the benofactors or due to the benofactors lack of growth and doing it not out of a desire to assist others but as tax sheltering of income. . . Those of us who are grown enough to understand the inherent wrongness of cheating benofactors or cheating anybody, will also be grown enough to  understand that those being helped will often not be at an equel level of growth as the benofactors and will not really expect the same level of behaviors or understanding of life, from those being they are assisting.. . I have helped many individuals over the course of my life. I have grown much during this time. While I am basically a kind person, when I began helping others I was doing so for differant reasons. In the begginning I helped because I wished to be liked and I also wished for others to be gratefull. It was more for myself than for the ones I was helping. Did I understand this was my primary motivation back then? Of course not, or I would not have been doing it for that reason. I have grown much, have much more growing to do, and now I am able to assist others for the basic rightness of assisting those who are in need, and I do not wish to be liked or have gratitute of those I help. Unless it is a person who is on the same level of growth as myself, I simply do not expect gratitude or to be liked or held in esteem. I do expect resentment and to be cheated at times though. However, just because I understand I may be cheated by those I assist, does not make it right for them to cheat me or take advantage of  me. It is just a condition of levels of growth.. . If I wished to never be cheated or taken advantage of I would restrict myself from interacting with anyone other than those who at the exact same levels of growth as myself or above. This would be stiffling my growth. It does not benifit society or individuals to restrict interactions to those who are at equal growth. So, I chose to continue my journey of growth by making sure I am around a wide variety of individuals. . . Thank you for this question, it was a really good, thought provoking one. I like finding questions like this here, in fact questions like this are half the reason I visit this site and participate. Again, thanks and much happiness your way always.