Tricky question.  The Holocaust was an awful event in human history, but the bigger event at the time was World War II, that literally involved every corner of Earth.  Jewish people or anyone do not take offense but the WAR had greater repercussions than the Holocaust itself - here's why.... Estimates are that 6 million Jews were exterminated, worked to death, murdered in Europe.  The end state was that Jews created Israel in 1948.. Now compare the number of Chinese, Russian (and Slavs of Eastern Europe), German, French, Japanese that died totaling in the hundreds of millions.. The Holocaust was spurned by a decision of the Nazis to rid Europe of Jews as quickly as possible.  This decision (arguably) didn't have a huge bearing on how the Allies would fight the war and defeat Germany and Japan (unconditional surrender from the beginning).. Comparisons - how many tribes/people did Ghengis Khan crush rolling through out of the Asian steppe?  How many north African tribes (originally from Europe) were wiped out by invading Arabs in the early Middle Ages?  How many Chinese did good 'ole Mao kill or starve to death in the 1960s?  How many Russians and Soviets died under glorious Stalin over a thirty year reign? (Both killed more people than Hitler). My point is that no matter in what conflict, humans have always reached some level of absolute barbarism and lose total value in human life (more recently the Khomer Rouge (sp?) in Cambodia, Milosevic in former-Yugoslavia, Saddam in Iraq/Iran and today, Darfur).  . Unfortunately, there aren't many positive LONG term effects to make much difference after human atrocities occured.  At least not many difference makers that have been successful.  The SHORT term goals are usually very good - criminal trials of the accused, memorials/museums to the deceased/fallen.  . Bottom Line - World War II resulted in many global changes, lessons to be learned from the Holocaust have largely been forgotten...Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, China (over decades since), sub-Saharan Africa (Rwanda, Somalia, Darfur), Yugoslavia, former-USSR, Iran/Iraq War, etc etc...human atrocities will likely continue...