Build a Barbecue with Mortar:. . Tools and Materials You Need:. .     * Barbecue Grills.     * Firegrates.     * Ashtrays.     * Chalk Line.     * Pointed Trowel.     * Dry-mix Brick Mortar.     * SW-grade Bricks.     * Builder’s Square.     * Level.     * Z-shaped Metal Ties.     * 7-inch x 3/8 inch Rebar (24 pieces).     * Brackets and Cutting Board (optional).     * Fluted Masonry Nails (optional). . Step 1. Buy the Materials: Purchase the barbecue grills, fire grates and ashtrays at your hardware store before you begin building. These items will determine how large the barbecue will be, so you must have them ahead of time. Decide how many bricks you need once you determine the size of the grill. Your average barbecue is 13 courses (or rows) high. If you want a cutting board attached to the barbecue, you can purchase it, brackets and other necessary materials at your hardware store.. . Step 2. Pick a Spot For the Barbecue: You will need a level concrete or brick spot for your barbecue. If you do not have a concrete or brick patio, you will need to lay a small concrete base for your barbecue. You may also want to consider which way the wind usually blows, and position the barbecue so that the smoke blows away from the cook and the dining area.. . Step 3. Size Your Barbecue: Outline how large your barbecue will be with a chalk line on the base concrete slab. Without mortar, lay two courses (or layers) of brick to help determine the size of your barbecue. Remember to leave 1/2 inch between each brick for mortar joints. Follow the brick laying pattern diagram for the first course.. . Step 4. Lay the First Course: Remove the bricks and use a pointed trowel to apply mortar to the concrete base, but do not go beyond the chalk lines. Lay the first layer of bricks following the diagram for the first course. Apply mortar to the sides of each brick before you lay it and butt the bricks up against each other.. . Step 5. Lay the Rest of the Courses: The rest of the courses alternate in pattern. The even numbered courses follow one pattern while the odd numbered courses follow another pattern. See the diagram in Figure 1 for the patterns. Alternate the patterns until you have 13 courses. Use a level to make sure that each course is even, and use a builder’s square to ensure that the corners come to a perfect 90 degree angle. On each odd numbered course (1, 3, 5), set z-shaped metal ties in the mortar and distribute them evenly. Place the z-shaped ties in different spots on each course.. . Step 6. Set the Rebars in the Mortar: Each course will be 3 wythes wide on both sides. A wythe is a vertical tier of bricks, each single wythe being 1 brick wide. We recommend that the barbecue be 3 bricks wide on each side. Before you place the inner wythe of the eighth course, set 7-inch rebars in the bed joints with 4 inches projecting from the bricks. Set four rebars on each side of the barbecue to hold the grate. Use the same process to install rebars on the ninth and twelfth courses. This allows room for 2 grilling racks. In all,you will be using 24 pieces of rebar.. . Step 7. Lay the Top Course: For the top course, the inner row is laid with its narrow side facing out as a stretcher, and the outer row is laid with its short side facing out as a header. (See Figure in Step 6.) Once the mortar is dry, you can attach a cutting board to the side of the barbecue with fluted masonry nails. Ask your hardware store to help you find the right ones.