Marmalade is a sweet preserve with a bitter tang made from citrus fruit, sugar, water, and (in some commercial brands) a gelling agent. In English-speaking usage "marmalade" invariably refers to a preserve derived from a citrus fruit, most commonly from oranges. The recipe includes sliced or chopped fruit peel, which is simmered in fruit juice and water until soft; indeed marmalade is sometimes described as jam with fruit peel. Such marmalade is most often consumed on toasted bread as part of a full English breakfast. The favoured citrus fruit for marmalade production in the UK is the "Seville orange", Citrus aurantium var. aurantium, thus called because it was originally imported from Seville in Spain; it is higher in pectin than sweet oranges, and therefore gives a good set. Marmalade can also be made from lemons, limes, grapefruits, or a combination of citrus fruits.. . A jelly is a sweet or savoury food gel, usually made through the addition of gelatin or pectin to edible liquids. The word jelly has different meanings in the English-speaking world.. . In Great Britain, it can refer to gelatin-based preparations (such as Jell-O, which would never be called jelly in the US), as well as savory preparations made of meat or vegetable juices. Sweet jellies include fruit jam or gelatin desserts such as Jell-O and blancmange. Savoury jellies include aspic or plain gelatin. Vegetarians and Vegans make jellies using agar, which is made from seaweed or grass jelly as opposed to animal collagen-based gelatin.. . In the United States, it refers almost exclusively to firmed fruit juice preparations made with pectin. The usual U.S. distinction between jelly and jam is that the latter contains visible seeds or pieces of fruit, whereas the former does not. Jam is also often thicker and more spreadable. The traditional procedure for making jelly calls for the cooked ingredients to be put into a cloth bag. The liquid that drains through the bag without squeezing can be made into a transparent jelly. Jam by contrast is made from the whole fruit and liquid after cooking. Gelatin desserts are not ordinarily referred to as "jelly" in the US, and it is rare (though not unheard of) to use the term for savoury foods of any description. Mayhaw jelly is a delicacy in parts of the American South.. . In the United Kingdom, jam is not ordinarily referred to as "jelly", although it was formerly so known in Scotland.. . In cooking, a variety of terms are used to classify pectin-based jellies: