For condensation in aerosol dynamics follow this link. . Condensation is the change in matter of a substance to a denser phase, such as gas (or vapor) to a liquid. Condensation commonly occurs when a vapor is cooled to a liquid, but can also occur if a vapor is compressed (i.e., pressure on it increased) into a liquid, or undergoes a combination of cooling and compression. Liquid which has been condensed from a vapor is called condensate. A device or unit used to condense vapors into liquid is called a condenser. Condensers are typically coolers or heat exchangers which are used for various purposes, have various designs, and come in many sizes ranging from rather small (hand-held) to very large.. . Condensation of vapor into liquid is the opposite of evaporation or boiling and is an exothermic process, meaning it releases heat.. . Condensation can also refer to:. . In chemistry, a condensation is typically a chemical reaction in which a carboxylic acid and an alcohol combine to form an ester, or the reaction of an organic acid with an organic amino group to form an amide, with the elimination of a molecule of water. See Condensation (chemistry). . In computer science, the condensation algorithm for realtime visual tracking. . [edit]. Condensation of water in nature. For expanded detail on condensation involving water, see Water vapor.. . Water vapor will only condense onto another surface when that surface is cooler than the temperature of the water vapor, or when the water vapor equilibrium in air, i. e. saturation humidity, has been exceeded. When water vapor condenses onto a surface, a net warming occurs on that surface. The water molecule brings a parcel of heat with it. In turn, the temperature of the atmosphere drops slightly. In the atmosphere, condensation produces clouds, fog, and precipitation--usually only when facilitated by cloud condensation nuclei. Dew is water condensate formed on any surface from humidity in the air, often naturally. The dew point of an air parcel is the temperature to which it must cool before condensation in the air begins to form.. . Also, a net condensation of water vapor occurs on surfaces when the temperature of the surface is at or below the dew point temperature of the atmosphere. Deposition is a type of condensation. Frost and snow are examples of deposition (or sublimation). Deposition is the direct formation of ice from water vapor.