There are a few criteria that some people point to to indicate that there even IS such thing as alcoholism and that it qualifies as a disease. . . Among these criteria: . . 1. The disease is progressive and incurable. 2. Abstinence is unlikely to be maintained without special assistance. . 3. The underlying disease gets worse even during periods of abstinence, . 4. The disease is independent of everything else in a person's life. . And there are others. This information is taken in part from here: http://www.morerevealed.com/mr/newmr_34.jsp. . All of the above criteria (along with the others used to designate problem drinking as a disease) can be demonstrably proven to be false. That is, none of the statements above are true and they have been proven to be untrue repeatedly in double blind studies and using other methods to test their validity. So to answer in direct violation to your instructions in the question, "alcoholism" or problem drinking are NOT diseases based on the definition of "disease" as accepted by the medical community. You're having trouble believing it's a disease, because you have common sense. In spite of insistence by those around you, you notice that something doesn't ring true about the statement "alcohol abuse is a disease."  . . "Alcoholism" is not found in the DSM-IIIR. Alcohol dependence and alcohol abuse are categorized as psychological disorders/problems, but there is no disease of alcoholism listed in this medical reference. . . Unfortunately, people do things to harm themselves. These range from chronic nail biting, to a once monthly stop at McDonald's for a big mac, to heroin addiction. People in the "treatment industry" will try to tell you that these are ALL the same disease of addiction. I'm unsure why alcoholism gets a special sub-category of this, but the "Oreo-ism" of those unable to stop after eating just one Oreo does NOT get a special designation. . . Of course, these self-destructive behaviors are NOT all the same in the real world. People go through times when they have trouble with alcohol, times when they are tempted to overeat, times of feeling more in control or less...it's called being a human being and having normal human problems and ups and downs.. . Simply stating that "it has to be a disease because my mom has it and I've SEEN it look like a disease" does not, in fact, make it into a disease. I believe it can be, in some cases, the symptom of a disease or the sign of a problem such as self-loathing, trying to "escape" from something, etc. And it sure as heck can be very difficult to stop the behavior causing one trouble...because of actual physical symptoms, because you never learned another way to cope, because it's a strong habit...for tons of reasons. It's hard to stop chewing your nails too, but we don't have a "nail-biters anonymous." . . If you read the link I posted above, you'll get more details about the science behind the disease theory...or rather, the science NOT behind it. If you follow the link at the bottom of the page, you can go on to read the entire book and several others on the topic. It is my opinion (and that of others) that the disease theory and the prevailing beliefs about how we need to treat it are VERY harmful to those trying to overcome a substance abuse problem. Calling it a disease lends itself to creating "treatment" and offering "help" that actually make it harder for the person with the problem to kick it. It makes assumptions that you're always afflicted, makes assumptions that you have no control over your disease...these things keep people from getting better and recognizing that they have control over what they put into their mouths and of their own lives.