Put a fence, a good sturdy fence.  Then hang a sign on the outside that says "Beware of Dog".  Then lock the fence so people have to call you first to get you outside or to your front door.  If you live in an apartment or can't afford a fence, then do this:. When they show up, open the front door (they will begin talking immediately but don't make any concerns of what they are saying), say very clearly "I don't want you coming here anymore and I will call the police if you don't stay off my property.  Thank you for your concerns and have a very nice day", then (yes, they will still be talking, but stay focused) shut the door and lock it.  This will only work if you can ensure they do not block the doorway when you open it, so be careful.. . Assuming you are not so heartless as to shut the door on some good hearted, well intentioned, tie wearing folk, then try this method:. Open the door (you must still not let them talk over you, you must speak first), Say "Listen up, I appreciate what you fellows (it will always be men, by the way....the Mormon women don't do this)are doing here and I support the effort.  I am not a Mormon and I don't want any information on it.  I would appreciate it if you fellows would stop coming here.  I am happy about my faith (don't tell them what it is, they will want to discuss it) and that is all I want to say to you.  It would be a shame to have to take legal action to get you to stop showing up at my front door.  I will do whatever neccessary to get you to stop coming here, but for now I hope that this is enough.  So, please, stop coming here.  Thank you and have a good day."  Then shut the door.. . You must be careful of a couple of things.  First, don't ask them any questions.  Like salesman, they will use this as a time to gain your attention and begin discussing other issues that they find important.  So don't ask them any questions, seriously.  Secondly, they mean absolutely no harm and they will not do anything to disturb or hurt you.  They believe in something and want every-damn-body else in the world to believe it too, so that is their mind set when they walk to your door.  They beleive they are right and they want the opportunity to prove it to you, don't give it to them.  And lastly, don't punish the people if they don't get the hint right away.  If they are not intelligent enough to understand that they are not wanted when you tell them so, then you can't expect them to use other types of intelligence to deal with critical situations....be very direct, but considerate.  . . I am married to a Mormon, so don't worry about offending them.  They know they are bothersome.  However, they also believe that out of every "close call" with someone who almost killed them, they are closer to finding the one person they can convert to their beliefs.  In short, they are evangelical, highly spirited, religiously devout, stubborn a$$es who feel they live with a cause.  . . This WILL work.  Try it for yourself.