because the ethnocentic racists from the north of the planet. got the earliest start in map making and put themselves on top. It could just as easily have gone the other way or even sideways if the equator cultures had invented map making.. This has colored the world view for centuries and fosters the illusion that white people from the north are superior to dark people from the south. In space there is no up or down, north or south, east or west. just close and far.. so the north pole is not REALLY at the top, we just say it is for convention and anybody who disagrees is killed until they all agree.( the conquerors or survivors). . I think a better argument could be made that the people of the equator are more spiritually advanced and thus superior so all maps should show the equator as most important It could be drawn that way, just like they now draw maps to make the north look bigger than it is. ( yes really). . The electromagnetic lines of force from the panets magnetizm also go north and south and eventually influenced navigation. These lines of force are sputtering now and reverse evrey 20,000 years or so, we are close to a reversal now so their will be some navigational confusion for a few centuries starting soon( yes really)  This has been proven by examining old ships logs of previous centuries and comparing measurements etc with now.   The reason the north people dominated is because the climate was so harsh it made the  few survivors tough over the centuries and also drove them to get the heck out and go south were it was warm and they could  conquer weak friendly peoples of the south. The people of the equator, (south of the north) had few reasons to develop technology because they did not have to overcome a harsh environment but could live easily in a pleasant world around them. they were less competitive and warlike and more feminine in virtue. matriarchies flourished but soon fell prey to the masculine invaders from the north, such as the aryans invading what we now call india and talking over and making the dark residents slaves.( the beginning of their caste system). . The world today is deeply rooted in the northern mystique of war and conquest and not into sharing and caring so much. That is why i vote for the equator to be at the top, but otherwise the south should be at the top. Maybe we would not have so much war and pain and suffering and selfishness if only the aborigines had invented the map and went around the world sharing and caring instead of killing and plundering like the spanish and the vikings and the damn romans. This too is a form of cultural evolution that is cruel and heartless and has bad results. GOD should have intervened but did not. I blalme GOD for the mess we are in. He invented this system.