Develop "Aqua Lungs" to Improve your Lung Power. .  Have you ever noticed the well developed lung capacity and respiratory efficiency of Olympic level swimmers? It's more than the exercise, it's the environment in which they exercise. When you are up to your neck in the water, there are changes that take place within and without your body that add new potential to your training and fitness program. . . Dr. Bruce E. Becker, who has published, taught and researched extensively on aquatics, wrote an article titled "Considering the Biologic Aspects of Water" which was published in April 1995 in Advance for Directors in Rehabilitation. In that article he stated that, "Like the circulatory system, the pulmonary system is profoundly affected by immersing the body to the thorax. Part of the effect is due to blood shifting into the chest cavity , and part is due to compression of the chest wall. The combined effect alters pulmonary function, increases the work of breathing and changes respiratory dynamics. In fact, expiratory reserve volumes decrease by 75 percent at neck immersion, with vital capacity decreasing only slightly. "The combined effects of these changes increase the total work of breathing by 60 percent. Thus for someone used to land-based exercise, water-based exercise is a significant workload challenge to the respiratory apparatus. If water training time is sufficient, this challenge can improve the respiratory system's efficiency." . . First, establish your current baseline. Inhale through your mouth and hold your breath as long as you can, noting the elapsed time. "Fifteen to thirty seconds is typical," Young says. . .  . For the next two minutes, repeat this action: Inhale through your mouth and hold. When you start to feel an uncomfortable tightness in your chest or a spasm to your lower diaphragm, release through your nose a modest "spill" of air--what you judge to be about 1/4 of what's in your. This will relax the muscles around your lungs and ease some of the pressure. Continue to hold the rest, repeating the pattern of "spilling" and holding until all your air is gone. . . Rest for one minute. . . Finally, inhale slowly through your mouth and hold. When you start feeling pressure to release, quickly let a short spill escape through your nose. Repeat until your lungs are empty. . . "When you look at your time, you should see a vast improvement, with your holding time expanded by at least 50 to 100 per cent," Young says. Using this drill over time, Young has been able to extend his personal air retention to slightly longer than two minutes. . . "This is an exercise you can do when driving, reading, flying or just sitting for prolonged periods," he says. "The more you do it, the more flexible and expansive your lungs become." . . As you repeat the drill, practice controlling your mental focus as well. "If you concentrate just on time, you're going to run out of air fast," Young cautions. "I think about my kids. They're the greatest joys in my life--and a strong motivation for surviving." . . He has found in his classes that when he tells officers to swim the length of a pool under water, not many can do it. But when he places a training gun at the end of the pool and tells them they can't surface until they have grabbed the gun, most are able to do so. "Their mind is focused on an important objective," he explains, "not just on retaining air." . . Remember to inhale through your mouth and exhale through your nose. That tends to produce better results than directing intake and outflow through the same orifice.