How old is this kitten?  What kind of "scabs" does she have?  Has she ever been to the Vet?  It sound like she has fleas and/or ticks that need to be treated.  As for her not using her box, the same thing happened to me after my brother bought me this computer.  My female cat, about four years old, is very affectionate when it's HER idea.  Then she wants lots of pets and stuff.  She liked to take some of her naps on a chest of drawers that is to the left of where I put the computer desk.  It's not in her way, she can still get up there alright, but I got really obsessed with learning how to use this computer, and didn't spend as much time with her.  I have an older male cat that occaisionally pees on the floor when his litter box isn't spotless.  So, when I started to find puddles in the morning in the kitchen, I thought it was probably him.  He is pretty advanced in age, I thought maybe he was getting incontinent.  Then I stepped in a puddle when I got out of bed one morning - YUCK! . . I was about to take my male cat to the vet when early one morning I saw her squatting on the kitchen floor where I had occaisionally found puddles.. . It was HER!  She was mad at me for spending so much time on the computer and disrupting her petting sessions.  As soon as I started to get less obsessed with my computer, and give her her regular attention, the problem ended.  So, think if anything in your home or about you has changed, that might be the problem.  They can't speak words, but as we all know, they can still communicate with us.  As for the scabs, if they're really bad, I think you should take a trip to the Vet.  There are other things they could be caused by.  I recently gave my older male cat a flea and tick remedy because he was scratching and starting to get a little spot that was hard and irritated, and he's much better now. . Sorry for going on for so long, now you can see why my kitty started peeing on the floor.  I get too wrapped up in things.  Good luck, and Hi to kitty.