Let's see the candidates:. Cro Magnon vs. Neanderthal:affected us for alleternity. Yorktown,Saratoga,Trenton: take your pic. Stalingrad, turning point in WWII. The Spanish Armada:ended Spanish Hegemy in the world. battle of Marathon;stopped Persia from expanding to the west. Battle of Midway:turning point in Pacific,WWII. battle of Thermopylae: 250,000 to 7000 . Battle for Hue in 1968 during the Tet Offensive. . Leipzeg, Napolianic wars. Battle of Chalons (451 AD): stopped Atilla. Moscow 1941:ended German expansion.. Antietam (as opposed to Gettysburg). Chosin Campaign 1950 . Bttle of Britain:Never was so much owed by so many to so few. Battle of la Marne: stopped the German invasion. Cajamarca,Spanish Conquest of Peru, 1532. Waterloo,Napoleonic Wars, 1815. Cannae 216 BC. Vienna, Austria-Ottoman Wars, 1529. Hastings, Norman Conquest of England, 1066. kursk....the largest tank battle ever.. Battle of Tours:Had Europe lost, most the world would be muslim and vastly different than it would be today.. . The one i almost picked best was:. Kharkov. I liked Manstein's skillful counter offensive and Paul Hausser's master work on the tactical level. The II. SS Panzer Korps along with supporting elements beat off a Soviet force that out numbered them 7 to 1 and retook the city (third battle of Kharkov).. . and then there's:. Atomic Bombing of Japan. . My pick is: . The United States dropping atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945 to hasten the end of World War II in the Pacific. Although it would be the first, and to date the only, actual use of such weapons of "mass destruction," the mushroom clouds have hung over every military and political policy since then. . . And the human population has stared into the dark abyss of global suicide since those dreadful days in August '45.. . . Greatest military battle in history?....hmmmm, i don't like the term 'great' for nuclear war, and aerial bombardment of citizens was pretty barbaric, but the consequences were pretty monumental...i guess war IS hell.