very interesting read.. funny about the dog bites. . not funny...AIDS.. from what i understand India has the highest rate of AIDS per capita in the world. Denser somehow than Africa.. If Bangalore is known for pubs and girls im sure its also known for any kind of exotic crotch rot you could ever hope to shop for.. . edit: . after a long interesting chat with you we discovered that it is not the worlds highest rate per capita of HIV/AIDS infection but apparently the nation as a whole has more AIDS cases than anywhere else. You pointed out this is not reflective of Bangalore itself.. Still I wonder what then are the needs and why it goes unaddressed or what effort is being made.. Just yesterday before reposting to answer you here I read an article that was highlighted on msn stating that AIDS will soon be the world's #3 killer. Aside from what the WHO organization had predicted in the past by assuming people had been informed.. I say nay to that because if there is a problem that goes undealt with and if a system of constant education is not set before the people then a society will be quick to forget.  I am not claiming anyone is ignorant, but in general ALL societies are no matter where you are from. Ignorance itself is pandemic. Such is the case with AIDS in India where the rate allegedly quadrupled around the 2001 - 2003 time frame. Right after it had been reported as we saw on the CIA factbook the rate of aids cases there. So assuming all our sources of information are accurate . we see AIDS went from 0.9% to about 3.8% in a matter of 2 or 3 years tops..  I think that AIDS is on the rise is a testament to the phenomenon in society that allows us to move on easily and forget the past simply maybe because of how short a time human life actually is.. In virtually no time before real progress can be set in stone there is a new generation to carry the flag that does not know intimately what that change means.  In the span of a short human life is what it would take 100% dedication to pushing the issue. A generation of sacrifice to cause a real lasting change. Or people that live long enough while intimately afflicted to see change carried out. People with HIV/AIDS are considered emblems of embarassment to their cultures and are not given a voice, is it not so?. The reality is anyone can contract these virus. Even though i have no personal interest in India or business relation I can tell you I find the thought of beating off stray animals almost irresistably something i would like to see first person, but to think what would happen if i were bitten so requiring a blood transfusion while visiting there? You should excuse me here for recoiling to worry if such blood might be infected with HIV for transfusion.