I'm sorry, but as a behavioral question, I am going to assume a few things. This is a nasty behavior to pick up, so bear with me as I go through some options.. . ~Do you yell at your 'Too when he's screaming?. You yell, he yells- it's a wonderful reward when you want some kind of attention. Your bird will turn it into a game, and this is one of the worst possible reinforcement you can give them. You basicly have to ignore it to let him know you will not drop everything to answer his calls. It can get hectic, and I can sympathize with any parrot owner who wants to yell at their bird in an attempt to scare them quiet. It is VERY tempting, but this is a habit you must break yourself of before you can work on your bird.. . ~In the past, did you run to his cage when he yelled?. If so, he trained you well. This behavior needs to be ignored from day one. This may be the reason why he does it now. You need to just ignore him now when he does it. He knows you will go back to him, so there is no harm in not responding to the screams.. . ~Is his cage in a place where he can see you?. It may be a comfort thing where he can see you and just hopes you will look at him when he makes a rukus. Yes, looking at him is a responce, and may be just the positive reinforcement that keeps him going. Move his cage some place where you cannot be seen, but continue to ignore his repitoir. This may only work if his cage is in a different room.. . ~Do you litterally drop EVERYTHING to watch TV?. He may preceive the TV as a threat because you drop everything to turn your attention to it (and this also goes for him being in a different room, whether or not he can see you). If he knows you are going to ignore him, he's going to try everything he knows to get you to turn your attention, and if you respond in any way to his screams, you are falling into his game.. . Here are some options:. . Try spending time with him while watching TV. If his cage is in the same room, let him out (keep an eye on him) and let him watch with you. If his cage is in a different room, there are other noises that are curious to him, and he may want to investigate. This may be a good bonding chance. You need to let him know you still love him, even though there is another "bird" (the TV) that is making noise that has your attention.. . During the comercails (and who wants to watch them any way :), turn the TV up a couple notches and go and talk to him (do not remove him from the cage if he's there) and do not open the cage- this may be preceived as you going in to take him out. Talk to him a bit and give him some encouragement when he's quiet. This will possitively reinforce that "quiet" will get more attention then the screaming. If he screams, wait 2-3 minutes before responding. This waiting period is important as it will prove you are still present, but are none to inclined to jump when he calls.. . Mirrors are useless, and there is a chance that your bird will want the bird in the mirror more then you. Toos are VERY sensitive, and if they get more attention from their reflection, this may turn into behaviors that are natural, hard to discourage and harder to break. Keep away from mirrors unless it is a game you are playing with your bird, so there is a reflection of you, as well.. . The blanket idea is more cruel then anything. If you do not cover his regularly, this reinforces you "dropping everything", especailly since you have already started the TV versus Cockatoo conflict. This could bring about aggression towards you for punishing him for nothing. He does not understand the problem, so this is an uneeded course of action.. . This, and too much sleep can also cause a cranky 'Too. Any parrot is like this. If there are not enough daylight hours for him when it is REALLY daylight, he may scream anyway, and then there will be bigger problems. He may start screaming at night, and this is not simple to break.. . Teach h