O People of the Book!. Do not go to extremes in your religion: nor say of Allah anything but the truth.. Verily, Christ Jesus the son of Mary was no more than a messenger of Allah, and His Word which he bestowed upon Mary,. And a Spirit proceeding from Him:. so believe in Allah and his messengers.. Say not "Trinity": desist: it will be better for you:. For your Allah is One God: . Glory be to Him: . (Far Exalted is He) above having . a son. To Him belongs all . things in the heavens and the earth. . And enough is Allah as a Disposer of affairs. . (SURA NISAA) Holy Qur’ân 4:171. . The Qur’an says... in Surah Nisa, Ch. No. 4, Verse No. 171, it says that...... ‘O people of the book’ ..... ‘Do not go to extremes in your religion’. What extreme... two extremes, Jews said he was an imposter and the Christians said that he was God Almighty.The rank hatred of the Jews which lead them to slander Jesus and his mother is bad, and the over infatuation of the Christians for Christ is also bad. Muhummed (pbuh) the Messenger of God condemned both these extremes, and elevated Jesus (pbuh) to his true status, as the Messiah, a great prophet and reformer. Love him, respect him, revere him, follow him; but do not worship him! For worship is due to God alone, the Father in heaven: ALLAH!' . Christianity is actually not a religion..Jesus never claimed divinity..neither is Judaism, Hinduism a religion. ..All these are branches of the true religion...which man has created when he went astray....The only religion is Islam...Many people have the misconception that Islam is a new religion..Infact Islam is there since times immemorial...since man set foot on the earth...Prophet Muhammad (P.B.U.H) was not the founder of Islam..he was the seal of the Prophets with the final message and gave us the ultimate guidance the Qur'an (latest testament!) which was revealed to him by Jibrael (Gabriel)Even Jesus(P.B.U.H) was a Muslim..Qur'an says Moses was a Muslim....Islam recognizez all Prophets and gives them due respect....but they all were Muslims...just one example...Jesus said:. . "I can of mine own self do nothing; as I hear i judge; and my judgement is just; because I SEEK NOT MY WILL BUT THE WILL OF MY FATHER which hath sent me"[John 5:30]. . Anyone who says not my will, God's will..he is a Muslim ( Muslim means one who submits his will to Allah). . Jesus even propheecised Mohammad(P.B.U.H):. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth; it is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you. (HOLY BIBLE) John 16:7  . . "AL-AMIN," the Faithful, the Trustworthy was the title given to Muhammad SA, "even the Spirit of Truth" (John 14: 17). This expression is a figurative way of saying that SPEAKING TRUTH would be so characteristic of him that people would regard him as TRUTH PERSONIFIED: exactly as Jesus (pbuh) said about himself, "I am the way, the truth and the life . . ." (John 14: 6), that these noble qualities are personified in me. Follow me! But "when he the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth" (John 16: 13). then you must follow him! . . Anyone who says not my will, God's will..he is a Muslim ( Muslim means one who submits his will to Allah). It is the people who have gone astray and divided the religion.All the previous revelations were meant for that time and not till eternity .Jesus himself said: I have not been sent but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. . Whereas Mohammad (P.B.U.H) is the last and final messenger and everyone should follow his teaching: Islam!..read the Qur'an for guidance and not the edited text of Bible and other previous scriptures as Judaism , Christianity etc..are old religions and were meant for those people when the mind was not developed to recieve the final revelation...IN this age you have to follow Islam and Qur'an