I see the same old lies given in answer to this question.. These are the facts. The Jews originally came from what is now Iraq. They were taken into slavery in Egypt.. They escaped from their slavery at a time when the Egyptian state was weak and spent 40 years as nomads in the desert where they worshipped idols as well as the god of Moses ( borrowed from Akhenaten). They eventually arrived at Mount Nebo in what is now Jordan where it is claimed that Moses was shown the promised land by his god.. If you stand on Mount Nebo today as I have done you will notice that the only land you can see is a small bit of the Jordan Valley and the northern end of the Dead Sea.. The land that they claim was already occupied by a thriving population both in the countryside and in cities. The only way they could take over was to kill the people who lived there ( remember Joshua and the Battle of Jericho).. It seems "thou shalt not kill" could be used very selectively.. The state of Israel in biblical times only lasted for two hundred years before it was overwhelmed by internal dissension and subsequent invaders such as the Romans.. Before the Zionists appeared on the scene in the 19th Century as a reaction to the persecution of jews in Europe, there were Jews living in the whole of the Middle East in harmony with the Arabs and other races for many centuries.. The Zionists changed all that with their distorted view of history and now we have the horrible mess as the Jews grab more land whenever possible and the Palestinians try to get back what was so recently theirs.. The Zionists triumphed after WW2 by acts of terrorism against the British controlling power, including the assassination of Lord Moyle in Cairo in 1944 , the destruction of the King David Hotel in Jerusalem by a bomb delivered in a milk churn to the kitchens, the murder of British hostages and the terrorising of the arab population. They also invented the letter bomb, the first of which was sent to a S.A.S. officer in England killing his brother who opened it by mistake. Some of these terrorists such as Begin later became leading Israeli politicians.. So you could say that Israel is the first successful terrorist state.. As you will see it  has nothing to do with gods or historical rights , just who is better at killing.