What causes UTIs? . .  Many bacteria can cause UTIs in women, but the most common are Escherichia coli (E. coli), responsible for approximately 80 percent of UTIs. Normally, these bacteria reside in the gastrointestinal tract, but they also may be present in the vaginal and rectal areas, and on the skin of the perineum (the skin between the anus and the vagina). Infection begins when bacteria stick to the opening of the urethra and multiply. The closeness of the female urinary tract to these areas and the shorter length of the urethra make it more susceptible to infection. . . Using a diaphragm for contraception can be an additional risk factor for getting a UTI. The diaphragm may press on the neck of the bladder, preventing it from emptying completely and leaving a pool of stagnant urine for bacteria to grow. Bacteria also may enter the urinary tract when the diaphragm is inserted and removed and when it is left in place longer than recommended. . . Not all UTIs are a result of sexual activity. . . Pregnancy & Childbirth. Hormonal changes during pregnancy and birth also are factors that may be associated with getting a UTI. If you are or think you are pregnant, you should see your doctor or other healthcare professional immediately if you have UTI symptoms. Do not take any medication without your healthcare professional's advice. . Suppressed Immune System. Hormonal changes during pregnancy and birth also are factors that may be associated with getting a UTI. If you are or think you are pregnant, you should see your doctor or other healthcare professional immediately if you have UTI symptoms. Do not take any medication without your healthcare professional's advice. . . Not Drinking Enough Fluids/Waiting to Urinate. If you don't drink enough fluids you tend to urinate less frequently, potentially promoting bacterial growth and thus urinary tract infections. . . Catheters. Another common source of urinary tract infection is the catheter, a tube that is placed in the bladder to drain off urine when a patient is unconscious, very ill, recovering from surgery, or incontinent. About 900,000 UTIs are contracted in hospitals each year, and up to 90 percent of these infections are associated with indwelling catheters. . . Other. Other causes of irritation to the genital area that may be associated with bladder infection include wearing tight jeans or pants, bike riding, perfumed soaps and powders, and even spicy food.