They are not ALL ignorant, but I understand where you're coming form especially if you've watched Rick Mercer's "Talking to Americans" where an American governor thought that the Canadian's have an igloo for a parliament building! That was just ridiculous... There's way more, but you have to see it to believe it.. . I do have an answer to your question though. Most people find Americans ignorant becuase they don't understand how the American doesn't know anything about the rest of the world or about Canada (their closest neighbour).  These people will say how come I know stuff about your country and you don't know anything about others?. . Well, that's becuase most of the world has access to American channels, American clothes, American food, American lifestyle, etc. They are the ones who influence the entire world. Americans themselves watch ONLY American channels! Not many Americans watch regularly watch a Bolivian channel, Indian channel, or Mongolian channels.. . The Americans THEMSELVES are SATURATED/surrounded by things American.. . I live in Canada and the only things I watch are mostly American shows, a few Canadian, and Bengali shows (which I of course get from satellite). As you can see, I don't watch much from Canada EVEN though I live IN Canada. The only reason I watch a channel that is from another country is becuase I'm an immigrant. BUT what about the typical Canadian? They are consistently watching shows like Friends, Will & Grace, Survivor, JEopardy, etc. All of these are American shows! . . Now, if even CANADIANS are constantly favouring American shows over Canadian shows, think about what the Americans must be watching!. . It's not completely their fault. English is understood by most people around the world, so you can't really expect an American to understand Chinese let alone start watching Chinese shows without subtitles.... . It's the same with other cultures/countries/regions where they have a mini-USA. In the Indian subcontinent, guess which country appears to be ignorant of it's neighbours? That's right , India! I'm not sure about other regions, but I'm pretty sure either China or Japan are mini USA's within their region. This goes for other regions in the world who have thier own mini-superpowers like the USA.. . America just happens to be the superpower of the whole world right now, and that is why they get the most abuse. They are the leaders and all leaders are expected to know basics about their subordinates.