To speak of God (the Father) and God (the Son) one must also speak of God (the Holy Spirit). This is The Trinity. In Christianity, one of the major tenets that describe this religion is the mystery of The Trinity. "Trinity" comes from the root "tri" meaning "three". This refers to the concept that God is the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit (or sometimes referred to as the Holy Ghost).. . The difficulty for many people is that it is confusing to understand how God could be three entities and also be One. Given the premise that God is omnipotent (all-powerful), is it not conceivable that He has means beyond our comprehension to separate Himself into three beings or entities and still remain one. After all, God created the universe and God is "all that is seen and unseen". Therefore, God is the universe and the universe is God. This also means that the spirit within each one of us is a part of God. We are each a piece of God made flesh to experience this reality and to learn the lessons that God has to teach us before we are worthy to return to the Source or to reunite ourselves with the Creator. . . In other words, God has put us here for a purpose and to learn and to help one another so that when we die our spirit will be ready to return to "heaven" (which is another way of explaining where God dwells). Heaven is like the source, the dwelling place of God and our purpose in this life is to prepare our spirits to be re-joined with God. We go back to the Source just like Jesus returned to the Source when He died. The difference there is, we are told in the New Testament, Jesus not only died but he was resurrected. (He came back to life in His body and was taken to Heaven in His body. This is the mystery of our faith: Christ has died. Christ has risen. Christ will come again. Because when Jesus appeared to the disciples after his death on the cross, He told them that He would return one day and take the faithful (believers) with Him to Heaven and "whosoever believeth in me shall not perish but have everlasting life.". . Now what that means exactly is something of protracted discussion and much debate. It is something Christians take on faith. We have no other example besides Jesus of anyone ever returning from the dead. (near-death experiences, NDEs, notwithstanding.) Many would argue that is not the same since Jesus was dead for three days in a sealed tomb and rose from the dead without benefit of modern medical technology.. . That all being said, it would stand to reason that God already knew before He sent His holy spirit to become incarnate (spirit into flesh). God is a spirit, non-phyical without a body. So, it is one of the inexplicable miracles of the Bible that He placed His holy spirit within Mary's womb and became a living, breathing flesh and bone man. How did He do this? No one knows. We must take it on faith. Just as we must take on faith that God knew before He did this that He would have to die on the cross as a way of being a physical, mortal flesh and bone being to live and suffer and die (just like we all have to do.) By experiencing first hand what we must all experience, He was able to transcend death and show us the way to achieve salvation and redemption for our sins. . . He could not save Himself from the cross because He would have otherwise not been able to save us or show us how to save ourselves. He made that sacrifice for each and every one of us. Whether anyone actually believes that or not, to understand this concept is a very powerful and moving experience. Many people have taken this on faith alone to be true.. . We have no other stories or examples of anyone else in human history doing anything quite like this. So whether it is literally true or not that Jesus came back from the death is irrelevant because even if He was only a mere mortal man than somehow faked His own death to make a point, the point is an extremely powerful one 