Ogopogo is related to Nessie. There are also family members living in the Great Lakes.. They are like the prehistoric lizard, Plesiosaurios.. The reason they have survived when others perished are for some special reasons.. . They do not have bones, they are made of cartilage, so when they die at over 300+ years, there is nothing to be found.. . They stay in their pair bond and don't stray far from the rest of the origional group.. . They make use of the underground caverns that stretch from Washington to Mexico which has been supported by two different dye tide tests by the goverment in the 60's.. . They have chromatophores, giving them the ability to camaflauge themselves when needed.. . They are omnivores and generaly. leave people alone unless their young are being messed with.. . They have nictitating membranes to protect their eyes..  . They have an element in their physical makeup that allows them to hibernate for years like lung fish and some frogs. . . They hear and find their food with sonar, it is also how they avoid people like us who would do ungodly things to them.. . A juvenile was found in the belly of a whale and it and its pictures disappeared the day after the goverment arrived, go figure.. . They can dive to great depths and can rebreathe their air for long periods of time, apparently depths do not affect them pressure wise, every one of them is capable of growing up to great lengths.Their massive lungs are half the size of their body minus the tail length.. . One was heard under Fresno in the 60's by a geologist and professor charting the underground lake for fine gold, a mile under ground, after he told the goverment, all access to the underground lake were dynamited, including Fort Irwin, go figure.More later, got to go.. . If they didn't exist, why are their Federal laws making it a felony (could be a misdomeanor, not sure about this one) to kill, injure or harass one! The laws have been enacted in  2 countries.. . Plus there is actual footage of the colony in the great lakes, so all I can tell you is they exist, there is physical proof.. . I say let them be. If we make  rare and endangered  animals extinct  at the prodigious rate that we are, how long before it's our turn?. . Sorry, the spell check wasn't working and I have a Migraine.