Briefs are snug and cling so that a man's balls will be supported & lifted - rather than dangling & jiggling around loosely.  It simply looks better. . . Same reason - why do women wear brassieres - to hold up their teats - is why!!!!    so men need the same anchor & lift to look better.. . Boxers remind me of old-fashioned special underwear for old ladies called BLOOMERS.  (They still sell them )  boxers & Bloomers are long, loose & baggy.  so how can a guy feel sexy if underwear doesn't show off his a-s-s  and his balls & prick???. . women - whether in good shape or not - even fat & sloppy - they always wear tight skimpy panties - AREN'T THEY DISGUSTING????   so don't say guys must have perfect bodies to wear briefs.  I have worn tight cotton briefs all my life & will never change.  Nothing gay about briefs.  when I grew up EVERY guy wore them daily.  this whole boxers thing is a new fad - primarily to please women's tastes.  . . THE TRUTH IS (SO HELP ME GOD) THAT so-called straight women really dislike to see and appreciate the man's a-s-s & balls & prick.  they like the feeling to get f-u-c-k-e-d but not the visual reality.  women think their bodies superior to guys.  I disagree.  . women want to wear all the skimpy sheer panties & underwear - EVEN IF THEY ARE FAT & SLOPPY.   IS THAT FAIR??  I SAY NO.. . MOst women don't have such nice figures, so they need to wear loose, baggy BLOOMERS to conceal their bodies- so let's see how you guys like that!!!. . women want to feel that they are the beauties, the PRIZE to be chased, adored, worshipped.  & admired.   I say "F-u-c-k-  that s-h-i-t   !!!"  . . Men must wear nice cotton briefs to show off what they have.  . I don't care about sperm production - I don't want kids.  That's not my concern.  I'm not ashamed of my body that God gave me.  it's not perfect - but how many WOMEN have perfect bodies.???. . boxers are mostly in the US ( an American obsession.)  In Europe it's more briefs for guys.   . . go on any foreign beach and see the Euro guys & Asian & Japanese wearing skimpy speedos & bikinis - they won' t wear the USA style long baggy loose BLOOMERS for swimwear. . . SO let's turn Your question around - WHY DO WOMEN HAVE TO WEAR TIGHT UNDERWEAR OR TIGHT SKIMPY PANTIES?????????. . WHY???   Say it louder- I don't hear you!!!   WHY??? . . WHY women won't wear loose, baggy BLOOMERS????????