Relacore™ by The Carter-Reed Company™. Excess tummy flab is not your fault: That's the startling conclusion reached by scientists who discovered stress is the likely cause of stubborn belly fat. But instead of simply identifying the problem, this time they may have found the solution!. . According to government researchers, the link between stress, tension, and excess belly fat is clear. High levels of cortisol — a nasty little stress hormone — can cause pound after pound of excess body fat to accumulate around your waist and tummy, a health-threatening, figure-destroying condition affecting an estimated 47 million Americans... mostly women.. . Simply stated, a bulging midsection is not your fault… it's the harmful combination of everyday stress, overeating, and excess cortisol, all conspiring to keep you overweight, tired, and thick around the middle. But now you can beat stress-induced belly fat with Relacore™, the breakthrough all-natural anti-anxiety, mood elevating pill that, in conjunction with a sensible diet and exercise program, helps control stress-induced cortisol production, thereby helping to reduce belly fat.. . A Natural Feel-Good Pill Called Relacore . Might Be the Perfect Answer to Belly Fat. . Take The Excess Belly Fat Test! . Does everyday life make you stressed out and anxious? . Are you accumulating belly fat that just won't go away? . Do you overeat in response to daily stress? . Do you have high triglycerides (the "bad cholesterol")? . Are you sensitive to refined sugar? . Have you tried diet after diet without long-term success? . If you answered "Yes" to one or more questions, your extra belly fat might be due to excess cortisol. . “Relacore is a non-sedating, mild anti-anxiety mood enhancer that reduces stress-induced cortisol production by helping to minimize stress,” says Dr. Nathalie Chevreau, PhD, RD, Director of Women's Health and Nutrition for www.MyFreeDiet.com. “Those who have used Relacore reported an overall feeling of well-being, less anxiety, much more energy and a greater ability to handle the problems of everyday life.” Not only can Relacore reduce stress-induced belly fat in conjunction with proper diet and exercise, but it also helps balance hormone levels that cause stress-induced belly fat and encourage overeating. Relacore is the best way to control the accumulation of stress-related cortisol and belly fat because the formula nips the problem of stress and anxiety in the bud, so to speak.. . The Belly Fat Connection . . So if everyday life makes you stressed out and anxious...if you've been accumulating belly fat that just won’t go away.. .if you're overeating in response to daily stress, and you're sick and tired of diet failure, it's time to try Relacore... the most significant advancement in belly fat control in more than a decade. Relacore is the natural anti-stress, mood elevating pill that can help positively alter the underlying cause of excess belly fat... leaving you happier, full of energy, and with that flat, youthful tummy you thought you'd never see again.