Walk in on them having sex with another man is the surest way. It is a highly personal question and having anyones complete sexual escapedes on display for the world is a very stressful thing. If you are in school (I assume high school) unless they are hitting on you, leave it alone. They are young and coming to terms with their sexuality and it is a very stressful and confussing time. . . Suicide rates among gay teens is extremely high. The worry what their frinds will say, they wonder if their parents will kick them out. They worry if gramma will still love them. They wonder about being harrassed in the lockerroom or beat up or killed (like matthew shepard). . If you are truely curious and need to know, most of your suspicians are probably right. But the most obviuos ones might not be. You can never be 100% with out asking. And if they're ready, if you're a good friend, if they feel they can trust you -they'll tell. If not, it's a horrible thing to do to OUT someone. It can traumatize a striaght guy wroongly accused or a gay teen not ready.. . What I need to convey here is some empathy on your part. Gays are not freaks, we are everywhere, we are people you love, we are people you respect, we are family and we are friends -whether you know it or not. Coming out is a hugely personal issue that was not thought about deeply and it happens with a lot of stress and we put every relationship we have on the line each time we reveal it. It may be amusing to guess who's queer or not. But we need alies in the straight world. We grow up with the same stresses of growing up you do plus a few more so please give them a little space to think without unfounded rumors. . . If you can befriend a queer boy (it won't bring your sexual orientation if you're secure enough in it) and defend him You have a lifelong friend who will never forget you. And we are surrounded by a lot of beautiful women (some who were born a woman too -lol) We might be able to throw a few your way and tell them how cool you are.