I'm responding to this, as you requested.  I asked you to answer two of my questions for creationists and you could answer neither.  Instead you implied that I may be comitting a forgery myself.  Let me ask you this... What have I possibly said in any of my questions that isn't true?. . Also, why haven't you answered any of my questions?. . Are you unable?  Because you are trying to give people the impression that you know what you are talking about.  I think it is clear now that you have no original thought of your own, and you're just good at cutting and pasting.  That will impress the ignorant (like Mainworry - he refuses to even look at scientific evidence for evolution) but not anyone with a clue.. . In my last 2 questions (8 and 9), I just stated the facts and asked you to explain them.  You have not done so and instead just cut and pasted a bunch of MISinformation.. . Well, once again, in this question, you offer almost nothing but misinformation in a deliberate attempt to decieve people.  If anyone is comitting forgeries here, it may be you.  But I'm willing to give you the benefit of the doubt and maybe you aren't THAT dishonest.  I think what is really going on is you just believe everything you read off of the creationists websites and assume it must be true.  It is clear that you do not investigate scientific sources of information.. . You are right about 1 thing... Piltdown man was a deliberate attempt at forgery by one man trying to gain fame and money.  But let me ask you this: can you show me 1 evolution textbook written after 1950 that uses Piltdown man as evidence for evolution?  If not, why is this even an issue?  Korean scientist recently tried to fraud people by telling them they had cloned a human. Yet this does not negate the field of genetics.. . The same goes for Nebraska man. It is an example of how wonderfully science works... a mistake was made and corrected within 3 years (it was NOT a forgery).  Again, show me 1 textbook that uses it as evidence.. . Forgeries of Archaeopteryx are forgeries by Chinese fossil forgers trying to make a buck, NOT by scientists, and they are not used as evidence.  So why didn't you mention the legitmate fossils of Archaeopteryx?  Maybe you want people to think there are none??? Or are you unaware of them?. . Hackels emblishments were certianlly not good science but his basic idea still holds true.. . Ota Benga's capturers were not scientists, but zoo keepers.. . Peppered moths are STILL good evidence for evolution.. . So, your whole question is based on a false premis... None of these things are "permisible."  Once mistakes or frauds are discovered by scientists, they make corrections - you're religion doesn't do that, does it?. . . I still ask you to answer my questions if you can.