Hi.  My great grandmother was 50% Cherokee and 50% American mutt.  She'd have me put Alum on it after every meal.  This "Alum" was a powder that she used when pickling (cucumbers and okra mostly).  It was a white powder and was very bitter, almost ubearable.  It'd immediately dry the Canker sore.  It was slightly difficult to apply b/c of its fine powdery texture and its bitter tastes, but it seemed to provide immediate relief of discomfort and seemed to heal the ulcers in anywhere from 2 to 5 days depending upon how fast it developed and how slow I was to begin applying the Alum.  It's immediate soothing effect on the pain is somewhat short lived.  I want to recall that this relief only lasted ~ 1 to 2 hrs.. . In adulthood, I have found Valtrex, Ibuprofen and strawberries to give me canker sores.  I was not initially able to find Alum in the stores (think I overlooked it at Wal-Mart or perhaps they do not have it???).  I got something prescription from the dentist after trying Cank-Ease and, I think, 2 other OTC Canker Sore products.  The prescription thing from the dentist was a thick paste.  It too was difficult to apply but was not as bitter as Alum.  It seemed to have very nearly an identical result to that of Alum -- immediate but short-lived pain relief and faster healing time (as compared to time of not using anything and simply "waiting it out."  I seem to recall literally twice to 3X as fast healing.  I later was able to find Alum at Piggly Wiggly and now simply use it at the first sign of a canker sore, and now I never have a cancker sore longer than 2 days.  I have had canker sores for as long as 3 weeks when I first began Valtrex -- NO they were NOT cold sores.  The "cold sores" were genital, and also I have only once had oral "cold sores" (during my 1st or 2nd outbreak).  The cold sores are nothing like the Canker sores.  I do not see why people commonly confuse them.  The Further, these appeared the 1 to 2 days after starting Valtrex and appeared in the "deep gum region" of my mouth -- about as far from the lip as possible.  And too, they typically only asppeared one or two at a time and are identical to canker sorees I got when I was 5 to 15 years of age -- 15 years before I ever contracted HSV.. . I do find that keeping a clean mouth and limiting eating, talking and anything involving mouth movement, w/ the exception of brushing and flossing, helped decrease heal time.