I originally wrote this to answer someone else's question, but it fits so well here I have added some and put it here for you to read. Please check out the web sites.. ---. It seems unfair, doesn't it? David and Job both had the same question. The answer is found in looking at God's original plan for our world. He created a perfect world, and had no intention of us experiencing sin. However, God is love, and love by definition gives a choice. Satan chose against God, and convinced Adam and Eve to do the same. Could God have prevented this choice? Well, yes, but then would it have been a choice? No, it would have automatically turned us into robots who serve God because there's no choice. God wants our love because we want to give it.. . Could God have destroyed Satan in the very beginning and avoided all this? Yes, but then the universe for the rest of eternity would have served Him out of fear, wondering if they would be the next ones to be wiped out. No, God chose to let sin work its course so that the entire universe could see that He is LOVE and gives choice. Believe me, when he comes soon and destroys Satan, none of us will EVER want to choose sin again. The universe will be entirely safe for eternity.. . And, does all this sin hurt God? Yes!!! It hurt Him so much that He gave His Son to come and live here and be killed by us so that we could live forever. What amazing love! He is hurt terribly every time ANYTHING bad happens. The Bible even says that he sees a sparrow fall - he cares more than we can understand. But, were He to always keep bad things from happening, He would be taking away someone's free choice.. . The question is, will you seek to understand God more because of what happened? It seems that you are. God didn't kill your friend, He simply allowed sin to take its course. What He wants more than anything is for a personal relationship with each person on this earth. Death in this life isn't the end - there is eternity, and if you choose Him you can spend it with Him.