Factors To Consider .  .  . . Everyone would like to have a perfect smile, but nature is rarely so accommodating. Even if you're one of the lucky ones who never needed braces, the rough-and-tumble of life, along with habits such as smoking or drinking coffee, invariably result in chips, stains, or an overall dingy appearance. . Until fairly recently, there wasn't a lot you could do to improve the appearance of your teeth beyond having them cleaned once or twice a year. In the last decade, however, improvements in dental materials and restorative techniques have made it possible for most of us to have close to model-perfect teeth that resist color changes and are almost as strong as the originals.. . If you have been considering ways to brighten your smile or correct imperfections, there's never been a better time to do it. Demand for cosmetic dental procedures is greater than ever, in part because baby boomers with money to spend are looking for ways to feel and look younger. . However, there are a few things you should keep in mind while making your decision:. . It's expensive. For example, the application of porcelain tooth veneers may cost between $400 and $1,500 per tooth. . Most cosmetic procedures aren't covered by insurance. . Materials aren't indestructible. Crowns, inlays and veneers are stronger and more durable than they used to be, but they won't last forever. They may crack or chip or the cement may weaken. If you're 70 years old, there's a good chance that the restorations will last longer than you will. Younger people, however, may have to repeat the procedures in 10 to 15 years. . It's important to be realistic. Dentists who specialize in cosmetic procedures are enhancers. They can manipulate, shape and polish materials in an infinite variety of ways to create smiles that are truly dazzling. What they can't do is change the shape of your mouth, the color of your skin or your overall appearance. In order for tooth restorations to truly look natural, they have to be work for you. Cosmetic dentistry can improve your appearance; it won't completely transform it. . One of the benefits of cosmetic dentistry is that the final results are easy to predict. Whether you decide to have a gap filled, a chip repaired, or a stain concealed, you're unlikely to have unpleasant surprises later. Dentists have many methods for repairing, restoring or otherwise changing the appearance of the teeth.. .  .   Imaging .  .  . . Thanks to advances in computer technology, it's now possible to view before-and-after images of your teeth before the work even begins. The technique is called computer imaging and it allows your dentist to give you an idea of what your teeth will look like after the procedure you are contemplating. . Before you commit to having a procedure done, a dentist who has this technology can project an image of your teeth on a computer monitor then " correct" the imperfection or modify your teeth as you desire while you watch.. . Imaging may not be necessary. If you want a chipped tooth filled or a space between teeth narrowed, you may be able to envision the result without a computer screen. If you are considering something more complex or involving more than one tooth, however, imaging can be helpful.. . Many, although not all, cosmetic dentists incorporate computer imaging in their practices.