The battle of Trenton (which took place in New Jersey on December 26th) was a major accomplishment point during the American revolution. This gave the American soldiers courage to go on in their fight. The whole winter while living at valley forge in horrible conditions really brought down their moral. After this battle, the army of George Washington, using the indians hit and run technique, attacked at various forts, gathering needed equipment and supplies to continue. It was because of the success of this and many other small battles that the French government gave the American army some supplies. . . The battle of Lexington and Concord, Massachusetts happened on April 19th, 1774. This battle was known as the shot heard 'round the world. It was the start of the MAerican revolution. The British were advancing on the colonists, heading for those two cities to gain gunpowder and other stuff. The previous night was the night when paulrevere did his famouse midnight ride. When going into the battle, the minute man (sort of city militia) carried anything: Muskets, shotguns, and even hatchets, into battle against the well trained british troops. Many did not come back to their famlies.. . There was also a battle at Dunbury, Coneticut which happened on April 26th, 1777. THere the british troops were destroying the homes of patriots, saving those of the Tories, by special markings on their chimneys. A Young lady, Sybil Ludington, known as the female Paul Revere and daughter of Colonel Luddington, goes throughtout the town, warning his men of the comming british. During the night, when looking at the horizon, the men could see the sky lit by the flames of the burning city. After riding 40 miles in 3 hours, she saw all of her father's men ready for action. The men all went into battle and met the british, forcing them back to the ships in the Long Island Sound.. . THere were other battles as well, including the winning battle at Yorktown, Viginia. These are listed on the Liberty Kids website. . Hope this helped!. History Rocks!