The savings rate is negative because people are living beyond their means. Back in 1933 when the US Government developed Social Security, it was announced as a supplimental income and citizens were asked to save at least 10% (15% reconmended) from each paycheck into some form of investment to be used for retirement. People didn't listen, but we had a Baby Boom which caused a population growth. Social Security was designed as a pyramid sceme to have the younger taxpayers support the retired ones. Not that many people lived to the age of 65 or 70 to collect Social Security back in 1933. In the 1960's the liberals forced birth control and abortion on the culture and society of the USA, which slowed down the population birth and stopped the Baby Boom. This caused a problem because that Social Security pyramid was now upside down due to a decrease in population births thanks to birth control and abortion, and thanks to medical advances people were living to the age of 65, 70, 80, 90, ect. This put a drain on the Social Security system and the US economy. It got worse in the 1980's 1990's as Baby Boomers begain to retire. The economy might crash in 2015 when the last of the Baby Boomers start to retire and the Social Security system will be paying out twice as much as it bring in with taxes.. . The negative savings has to do with Baby Boomers retiring and cashing in their stocks, IRAs, 401Ks, and other investments. It was starting to be felt in 1999 when the Dotcom companies and technology companies fell. The economy took a tumble in 1999 due to these factors. I myself lost $50,000 in savings in 1999 due to those economic factors making my IRA worth less money. 2000 started to get worse, and in 2001 we had a war going on, 2003 another war, deficit spending stimulated the economy a bit, but the savings rate took a hit.. . Materialism is partly to blame, people keep buying things to keep up with their neighbors. A failing health insurance system is to blame as well, as most bankrupcies are caused by high medical bills. Liberalism is partly to blame for forcing birth control and abortion on the population, causing a reverse Baby Boom, meaning fewer births. High gas prices are partly to blame, as it eats into people's savings. There are other factors as well.. . The economy is great, because it is a consumer driven economy. The more things people buy, the stronger the economy grows. The problem is that hardly anyone is saving, and most people are borrowing money to live on. Most people live paycheck to paycheck and cannot even follow a budget. Good for banks, good for businesses, good for the government that taxes them all, but bad for the consumer who now owes more money than before. Only people are selling stocks, instead of buying them, which is driving down income for most businesses as their stocks lower in value and they cannot raise capital. There are two ways a business can turn a profit, cut expenses or increase revenues. Since everyone is spending beyond their means, increasing revenue is not possible. So they stick to cutting expneses, like wage cuts or downsizing, in order to turn a profit for shareholders. If managers cannot turn a profit for shareholders, the shareholders will vote in new managers.