I did a little research for you:. . Osiris, the Greeks called him Pluto or Dionysus. He was a nature god and a king, the universal lord. According to tradition he abolished cannibalism, taught the solar religion, taught men to produce grainetc., built temples with fin images and laid down strict religious laws. He also built towns, gave man civilization and invented two kinds of flute to accompany ceremonial songs. . . He was always accompanied on his travels by his grand vizier, Thoth, and his nephew (or some say his son), Anubis. Isis was his wife and Horus his son. Osiris is always depicted witha greenish face and dressed in white. He carries a crook and a flail, the insignia of order and discipline, and is sometimes shown seated on a throne, surrounded by water which grows the primordial lotus. His symbol is the Djed, or tet, a stylized tree.. . Osiris and his sister/wife, Isis, ruled over the lands later called Egypt. They were both divinities from Heaven(?) who had decended to Earth to aid in the development of mankind. Osiris had a brother Set (likened to the Greek Typhon), and the two brothers dwelt amicably with their wives, Isis and Nephthys, in Abydos. Osiris was much loved by the people, having taught them the arts civilization; he promoted piety, good health and well-being amongst them.. . While travelling to visit south-east Asia (some accounts state India) with his wife, Osiris was suddenly summoned by his brother to return. During his absence Set had conspired with seventy-two otherswho arranged a banquet to celebrate the King's homecoming. As part of the entertainment a strange box was introduced and, one after the other, the guests tried to fit into it. Only Osiris was able to slide comfortably inside, upon which move the conspiritors shut and sealed the lid. We are told that Osiris entered this box or tomb on 7 Athyr (13 November), the very day and month when Noah was surposed to have boarded the biblical ark. The box was then thrown int the Nile (or some accounts the sea), and carried onwards by the inundation. Eventually it was caught up in a tamarisk tree.. . Isis, who had been visiting Chemmis, received news of what had occured. She hastily sumoned her nephew Anubis, and set out to seek for her husbands body. At Byblus she found the tree,but it was guarded by a magical power and she could not approach the coffin. As she watched, the King of Byblus came looking for a tree to serve a a column for his palace. He selected the very one that held Osiris. In vain did Isis, in her form of a dove, utter plantive cries to dissuade the men from cutting it down, so she resumed her womanly appearance and went to the palace where she became nurse to the Queen's child. . . By ingratiating herself with her employers Isis was able to match the evil magic of Set and secure the coffin. But her troubles were far from over.Set heard about her deeds and artfully stole the box while she slept. He open the coffin and cut the body of Osiris into fourteen pieces, dispersing them in various places. Isis then had the task of seeking each piece. With her sister Nephyhys and her nephew Anubis she travelled far and wide until she had located every piece except the phallus. This had been eated by a oxyrhyncus (although some may say a spider). She then made a phallic likeness from wood and brought the whole body to Abydos for burial. Together with Nephthys, her sister, Anubis, her nephew, and Thoth, her uncle, Isis wept bitterly over her dead husband and chanted magically. So powerful were her tears and prayers and the occult powers of Thoth, that one member of Osiris began to evidence vitality and secured conception for the faithful wife. Osiris then ascended to Heaven from which sublime place he continued to watch over Isis while she carried and bore his only son, Horus.. . . I hope this helped.. Sorry I am a bit longwinded, but ancient studies and mythology are a passion of mine.