obviously u do not have enough lesson about the history of the world. i suggest i to find a book about it and read.( all of u ) when the european people r in the dark age, the muslim world is very well develop. this shows that it is not the religion that restrict its people from the development but the way it was done.. .  fyi( if u r not knowing it yet) the west people r the one that seek knowledge from the muslims at that time. after the dark age, the islam world was fall apart because of some reason. and the revolution in the west. they decided to set their religion aside for the sake of development ( and yet, their religion r not the one that made them live in the dark age, but their priests). so, they went all out and start supresses the islamic world.. .  after the world war 2, the ottoman empire fell ( please read about ww2 ). and after that, the young leader in turkey decided to be secular too, like the west. at that time, the west was already conquer nearly all the country in the world for atleast 300 years. they become rich because of that. only after the world war 2 that the countries in the world start to stand on their own and fight hard for independence. the islam world which was paralysed for 300 years,cannot immediately rebuild their nation.  and after that, the things goes like what StupendousMan said.. . the west already 300 years ahead of other countries in technology. their economy is good too, thanks to the natural resourses that they took from the conquered, and the knowledge they develop,  which some ( alot, i believe) from the islam world.. . the muslim people r nowadays divided to many large group. they r not united. thats why the development of their country r slow (not the religion itself) . and some of them think like Brian did. some did like what omnitel2000 said.. so, that was what is happens to the world of islam today.. . it is the people who practise islam who r wrong, not the religion itself. many of them do not fully understand their own religion. what they do only believe what their father and mother believe ( so did nearly all of u). i didnt say that islam is wrong (im muslim too) but they dont practise islam way of life the right way . there is a lot of evidence for this (seek for ur selves).