Good question, first let discuss the unstablity problem,. As you may know Henry Kissinger, US Secretary of State under Presidents Nixon & Ford says "Oil is much too important a commodity to be left in the hands of the Arabs.---" . Fact is Oil cant be produced in an unstable country because it is flamable itself and need lots of pipeline to transfer so there must be stable countries in unstable atmosphere.. Middle east has been unstable for many years, USSR and UK has been in territory before WWI and has been replaced by US after that. Israel and Arabs have problems since WWII, Iranians and Arabs have problems even before Islam.... About being poor, apart from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahran, Iran, Iraq, Indonesia, Turkey, Lebonan... there are some poor Islamic countries like Yaman, Afghanestan..... I don't think Islam has been the reason that they are poor, they are mostly countries without resources and good leaders, some of them have been in war since many years ago like Afghanestan.. You can't generalize it, there are many rich Islamic countries and there are poor Islamic countries, you can't say every christian country is rich or every Islamic country is poor.. Proper question is why Islamic countries are not advanced in technology. You can't compare Islamic countries with China, as you know most of resources are in Small countries and they rather buy western cars every year instead of making a automobile factory, you must take it easy on them, you can't force Emarat Arabs to do so, you better know how they are, they even don't explore their oil, western companies do that for them, they don't have an army, western troops protect them, what do you expect of these people? to spend money on science? Do you think its Islam fault?. This is not a problem with Islam, this is a problem with  Muslims, you know that most of Islamic scientist weren't from Saudi Arabia.. You know that science has been emphasized in Islam, there is a Hadith from Mohammad that says "Learn Sience from cradle to grave". Like always you have neglected Iran, I have told you, you don't know anything about Iran, there is an Iranian passenger car(Maybe not comparable with BMW but It's not that bad, it can satisfy euro3 standards http://www.ikco.com) and TVs, there are some Iranian TV producers and there are good universities in Iran, they export lots of students each year and we explore our oil ourselves.