I'm as happy as a child   he, he, he. . Sharing is Caring...Jesus is Alive!?. I would like to share my story with any Christian or non-Christian who is still struggling and faith is not all together there. . . I hold G-- to the highest, and to lie would be not only against what I believe, but against G--'s laws. Nothing here is a lie, although it might seem like it. This is the reason I type this. G-- bless you all.. . I am 30 years old. I am a mathematics teacher. Since the day I was born I was Catholic. I never practiced it, and Catholic was simply a family label. I considered myself Atheist for 30 years until that day in March, I believe. I was painting my Mom's house. The face of Jesus appeared before my Mom and I. She asked me, "what does this look like to you?" But, before she finished the question I KNEW IT WAS HIM. The long hair, the beard, mustash, garments. Similar to the "Jesus" from "passion of the christ," except the eyes. Those eyes cannot be described. They translated into love, love, and love. If I had to describe them, I would say that the closest to that has been Mother Teresa's eyes. Not to take anything from her, but still, only close.. I thought that had changed me, but it didn't. It did start me off though. But, now as I researched and spent countless hours learning more about him, I started hating Jews and easily angered at anyone who spoke against Jesus. It had actually made me a worse person.. As I stuggled one morning with Currency Trading, he appeared again on the cabinet drawers of my room. He faded and came back over and over until He appeared very clear and said to me: WHY DO YOU WORRY ABOUT THINGS FROM THIS WORLD?" I think he said it two or three times. I started crying, as am right now. This was the first time that Faith came into my heart. . My life started changing, slowly. Same struggles, but different attitude and determination. I prayed day and night and went to Church. But, the real test, is the acts. "YOU WILL BE JUDGED ACCORDING TO YOUR WORKS" is one of my favorites. . In one of the Churches he said to me: "YOU ARE MARKED WITH MY BLOOD." I told my Mom and tried to make sense of it. . The last thing that he told me was: "I AM NOT YOUR FATHER. I AM YOUR BROTHER. THE SON DOES NOT EXIST WITHOUT THE FATHER, BUT WITHOUT THE SON THE FATHER IS ALWAYS.". At moments I wonder if it was all just in my imagination. This is the mistake that I keep making for this is where my Faith is tested. . No matter what, I am a better person for it. I love G-- with all my heart now, and I could never go back. Nothing in this world could ever shake or disturb my Faith. Finding G-- will always be a win-win situation. Now, I live everyday to make G-- proud of me and in the process I fulfill my obligations as human and husband.. I know that I should be doing more for G--'s glory. I am shy, but will soon find the strength and power to glorify him more and more. I am still in my learning stages, but live everyday to follow Jesus Christ's footsteps.. "pourdawg" could not be altogether wrong. But, what I know for certain is that if we are all lost souls, then we need to find G-- so that we can find ourselves in H--. "marty" tells you not to rely on feelings for that is wrong. I say to you, the problem I always made was that I thought too much and searched for contradictions here and there so that I could justify myself. But, if you think with your heart the truth will always ccome to you. . . ~ADIOS~ . . I am not here to tell you to quit your religion for they all share the great love that Jesus proclaimed. Be just, compassionate, humble and love G-- with all your heart. Share his glory by doing and not saying. ~ADIOS~. . My goal now is simply to share this over and over again. I know G-- will guide me to my next step. I will keep anyone who want posted. I feel so Alive!!! Yes, even in the worst of times.