Hey there....... Apparently there are 2 "Types" of gout. . I included a "Brief" explaination of each. If you click on each link, pertaining to each "Type", you can then read further so you can have a better understanding of each. . Both include...Medications, Treatments, Home Treatments, Day To Day, What To Aviod, More On Causes, Frequency Of Attacks, Diet, Etc.... . #1) Arthritis:. Gout. http://www.webmd.com/content/article/78/95591.htm. . Gout is a form of arthritis (an inflammation of the joints) that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth and swelling (inflammation) in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time. . The large toe is most often affected, but gout also can affect other joints in the leg (knee, ankle, and foot) and, less often, joints in the arm (hand, wrist, and elbow). The fingers are rarely involved and the spine is almost never affected.. . What Are the Symptoms of Gout? . The symptoms of gout include:. Sudden, intense joint pain, which often can wake a person from sleep. . Swollen joint that is warm to touch. . Red or purple skin around the joint. . If someone has gout on and off for years, eventually uric acid crystals may accumulate in the body to form gritty nodules called "tophi." These nodules can appear as lumps under the skin near joints, at the rim of the ears or in the kidneys. . Uric acid comes from the natural breakdown of the genetic material in cells, RNA (ribonucleic acid) and DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). Some foods contain large amounts of uric acid, especially red meats and organ meats (such as liver and kidneys), as well as some shellfish and anchovies. . Uric acid in normal amounts remains dissolved in the blood and easily passes through the kidneys, leaving the body as waste. However, uric acid in high amounts makes a person more likely to develop gout. . The amount of uric acid in your blood can change depending on what you eat, your overall health, how much alcohol you drink and what medicines you are taking, as well as in response to a sudden illness. . . What Causes Gout? . Gout was once incorrectly thought to be a disease of the rich and famous, caused by consuming too much rich food and fine wine. Although diet and excessive drinking contribute to gout, they are not the main cause of the condition. . Gout results from abnormal deposits of uric acid crystals in the joint cartilage. The crystals are later released into the joint fluid. . Not everyone with high levels of uric acid will develop gout. The kidneys' ability to rid the body of uric acid is partly determined by heredity. Yet, just because someone in the family suffers from gout does not mean everyone in that family will have the disease. This risk varies from person to person. . . . #2) Arthritis:. Pseudogout. http://www.webmd.com/content/article/78/95621.htm. . Pseudogout is a form of arthritis that causes pain, stiffness, tenderness, redness, warmth and swelling in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time, but sometimes may affect several joints at once. . Pseudogout commonly affects the knee or wrist. Less often, it can involve the hips, shoulders, elbows, knuckles, toes or ankles. . . What Are the Symptoms of Pseudogout? . The symptoms of pseudogout are similar to symptoms of several other diseases, especially gout (which is why this form of arthritis is called pseudogout). Some symptoms of pseudogout are similar to those of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. Symptoms of pseudogout include: . Sudden, intense joint pain. . Swollen joint that's warm to the touch. . Red or purple skin around the joint. . Severe tenderness around the joint (even the slightest touch or pressure may bring extreme pain). . Less often, pseudogout may cause persistent swelling, warmth and pain in several joints, and can even mimic rheumatoid arthritis. . Most symptoms of pseudogout go away within five to 12 days, even without treatment. . . What 