I did notice that you put some christians, and you are right some of all religions especially as well as all people want people to think just like them.  But generalizing is still generalizing, however... It is sad and should not be that way, but it is not just christians, but I do hear you on the fact that since they are such a big group it seems like so many... the prob is that those ones that are preaching hatred and the dumb stuff about only one religion will get to Heaven (which come on, every chiristian should have learned that God gave us free will, who are they to try to take it away) the whole idea of only one religion getting to heaven is absurd, just as absurd as the idea that if no one has ever taught you about Jesus or God you will go to hell, come on... The Chirstian God I know loves EVERYONE... not only christians, not only people who read the bible, not only people who read cat in the hat for that matter, but EVERYONE... just like every other group, do not take those things you hear and base your whole judgment on chirstianity that way, we are all very very different and all have very different beliefs even inside the religion.  Eve as a christian I get mad at the self proclaimed chiristians who walk out of church on sunday morning and than go to the grocery store or a restaurant (or wherever) and then treat people like crap.  It is a world problem, not a religious problem.  Whether Christian or not you should treat everyone with love.  It is just that we are humans and people forget that they should be kind and loving... or they just want to punch their ticket and say well I did my one day of service to the Lord I am good for another week... either way I get your point, but it is all people in all religions that need to start being more loving and treating people with love and kindness!!!!  I would like to know why it is the radical and unloving christians who get to be the name and face of all christianity and why people do not understand that just like everything else that it IS the radicals who are speaking for the diverse religion of Christianity!!!!????