I had to look up "hillbilly" in the dictionary, to understand what you meant exactly. I found some interesting things.. .     First, these are people who are from back wooded rural areas. I was surprised to find this was a "term". brought over by the Irish while settling America, too.. And at first, their were no negative connotations associated with hillbillies, they were just rural people who settled the lands, hills, and mountains all over the world, and in America (especially Tennesse, Ozarks, and Appalacian Way)and worked the land.. . Lately, hillbilly  has implied a person was crude, rude, .  unsophisticated, unruly, unkempt, uneducated, . dressed in rags, and toothless. Much like other e. slurs. like redneck, honkey, cracker, white trash, in American. slang, and God knows what they call them internationally.. There are alot more peasants then nobles, artisans and . rulers. I think its always been this way.. . . . Maybe hillbillies and peasants never had an opportunity to be with people who were sophisticated, well mannered, with controlled temperate emotions. Maybe they didn't need HI HEELS and DIAMONDS AND GUCCI OR RALPH LAUREN SUITS TO PLOW AND BUSHWACK their muddy terrain. Could you imagine high heels in the woods. I wore them camping one time. To the. delight of my campground friends. . . I mean really, could you imagine someone like Donald Trump. or Calvin Klein dining with hillbillies? Would they even give them the time of day? Would you? Especially if they. are  toothless and could not afford dental care and implants. Ugh!. . . Hmmm. Maybe poor people who eek out a modest living can't afford to give their children the best life has to offer.. No money with all those kids, and those kids are supposed to help ma and pa on the farm aren't they?. . Education for the masses is not so new. Its nice to be. able to read and write and be literate. But if your expected to work the farm from sun up to sun down do you really need it?. . What hillbilly gets accepted to PRIVATE K - 12 or. IVY LEAGUE SCHOOLS, with no money, no political connections,. no sophistication, no class? . . Would they even want to?. . There are fewer sophisticates in this world it must be true.. Meanwhile all the hillbillies are working for them. What I think would be a real plague is if they weren't.