Okay, the best thing I can do to help you understand that is to just simply say this, in the Apostolic Age, in the book of Acts, when the church was born, God gave to His people, on the Day of Pentecost, in Acts 2, the ability to speak many languages which they had not learned. It was a miracle. And, as all miracles, it was intended to get their attention to demonstrate that God was there. In other words, when you see a miracle, you know God is present, right? And, so, when that miracle happened, it collected these people and they were amazed because here were all these uneducated Galileans talking all the languages of people gathered in Jerusalem for the time of the Pentecost Feast. And, so, they spoke in all these languages the wonderful works of God. And, people came together as a crowd. And, having attracted them with the fact that God must be there because of these miraculous languages...in other words, they weren’t gibberish. They were actual languages spoken by these people. And, everyone heard in their own language what they were saying, the amazing, wonderful works of God. That drew the crowd, and they said, boy, this is a divine miracle. And, it was, at that moment, that out of that group of people speaking stepped Peter, and preached to them the Gospel. So, that the tongues was a way for God to get their attention. To get their attention. . Now, this continued in the early church, this speaking in tongues. In fact, when the next group of Christians, after the Jews, which would be in Acts chapter 8, the Samaritans were saved, they, too, had the same phenomena. Why? Because Jews already looked down on Samaritans, and God wanted to be sure that the Samaritans received the same miraculous sign when they entered into the church that the Jews had received, so there wouldn’t be any second-class citizenry, right? You go further into chapter 10, and you have Gentiles. We’ve gone from Jews to Samaritans, to the Gentiles. When the Gentiles received the gospel and believed, they, too, spoke in those tongues. And, God was saying, it’s all one church. Nobody’s a second-class citizen. Nobody at all. And, so, those are very important events. . Now, when you go into 1 Corinthians 14, the Apostle Paul says, "Tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but to them that believe not." What are they a sign of? They’re a sign that God is present and about to speak, for one thing. And, secondly, in 1 Corinthians 14, it says, they are a sign to Israel. What are they a sign of? Well, you go back to Isaiah, and Isaiah said, you don’t listen to me, when I speak your language, so, someday, I’m going to speak a language you don’t understand. And, so, tongues were a two-fold sign. One, they attracted the attention of people to show that God was there. Two, they said to the Jews, you haven’t heard when God spoke in your language, and now, He’s going to speak a language you can’t hear. So, it was a judicial sign of judgment on Israel. . After that era, I believe, tongues ceased. And, that’s 1 Corinthians 13, "Whether there be tongues, they shall cease." And, I believe they ceased. . Now, today, people have started up speaking in tongues again. And, it’s been since 1900, or a little after that it started up again. And, the question is, if it ceased for 1800 years, how could it start again? Well, they try to go back to Joel, and get a verse that says, "The former rain and the latter rain, and this is the latter rain, and God’s bringing it back," but that’s very unfair to the text. . So, I believe what we have today could basically be explained as counterfeit, or something from a source other than God. And, by the way, I don’t know if you know this, Tibetan Monks speak in tongues, Eskimos speak in tongues, many of their tribes, so do Mormons, and various eastern religions do as well.. Secondly, and, probably, the most common thing, it is learned behavior. Somebody started it and the