Hmm....this is actually a complex question.  I will attempt to answer a succinctly as I can.. . A community, in its base definition, is a group of people very large (like a ethnicity/race) or relatively small (like group of fabrege egg collectors), in a place who occupy a surrounding....either good or bad.  In a positive context, this people share in a responsibility to uphold the standards of what they want their community to look like, stand for, etc.. . A mob (not to be confused with THE Mob) is something else entirely.  It has a negative connotation.  It is a group of people centered around a usually negative idea, theme, motto, mantra.....who go forward in action, usually in a heighten emotional state.  It is a unified, tightly knit group with a certain usually negative purpose in mind.  . . The big difference in a mob and community, is the lasting effect.  Communities are able to stand a lot lnger because emotion is not the trigger of lasting effectiveness.  It can stay around as long as people are present, regardless of what they feel about where they are in relation to their community.  For example, a man may think he lives in a bad neighborhood....and he feels he needs to leave.  He will leave, but his community will still stand without him.  . . Or another example is a person in a ethnic, political, or socioeconomic catagory, like for example, the Republican community.  A man wants withdraw from the Republican community and be a Democrat.  The Republican will not fold over because he left that group, because the group is without conscious....it moves forward with a somewhat concrete set of ideals.....similar to a computer.. . Now a mob is almost always temporary, because it is emotionally driven.  The once emotionally tied unit cannot usually sustain the fervor needed for any lasting.  In this kind of group, one person can change the entire spectrum of thought with the other members, therefore changing the mob into a....just an aimless group.  The consciousness of the unit has to be held together tightly, and since emotions change with the weather...a mob cannot last for longer than however long the members of that group feel strong in standing together for that one, usually negative, purpose. . . It's not the most complete answer...but there's a lot to it...and I'm at work. LOL.  Hope this answer works.