In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate.. . .  I have not created the jinn and the men except for this that they should . worship Me.*53 I do not ask any sustenance of them, nor do I ask them to . feed Me.*54 Allah Himself is the Sustainer, Possessor of power and . might.*55 Therefore, those who have done wrong,*56 have also their portion . of a similar torment ready as the people like them have been meted out . their portions before. So let them not ask Me to hasten it.57 Ultimately, . there will be destruction for those who have disbelieved, on the Day with . which they are being threatened.. . . The Holy Quran Verse 56 – 60 Surat Adh-Dhariyat. . . . 53. That is, "I have not created them for the service of others but for My . own service. They should serve Me, for I am their Creator. When no one . else has created them, no one else has the right that they should serve . him ; and how can it be admissible for them that they should serve others . instead of Me, their Creator?" Here, the question arises that Allah . Almighty is not the Creator only of the jinn and men but of the entire . Universe and of every thing in it. Then, why has it been said only about . the jinn and men that He has not created them for the service of others . but of Himself ? whereas every single creature is there to serve Allah. . The answer is : On the earth only the jinn and men have been granted the . freedom that they may serve Allah within their sphere of choice if they so . like ; otherwise they can turn away from Allah's service as well as serve . others beside Him. The rest of the creatures in the world do not have this . kind of freedom. They do not have any choice whatever that they may not . worship and serve Allah, or may serve any other. Therefore, only about the . jinn and men it has been said here that by turning away from the obedience . and servitude of their Creator within the bounds of their option and . choice and by serving others than the Creator, they are fighting their own . nature. They should know that they have not been created for the service . of any other but the Creator, and for them the right way is that they . should not abuse the freedom granted them, but within the bounds of this . freedom also they should serve God voluntarily just as every particle of . their body is serving Him involuntarily in the sphere where they have not . been granted any freedom,. The word `ibadat (service, worship) in this verse has not been used in the . sense of only prayer, fasting and other kinds of such worship so that one . may understand that the jinn and men have been created only for performing . the Prayer, observing the Fast and for praising and glorifying Allah. . Although this sense also is included in it, this is not its complete . sense. Its complete sense is that the jinn and men have not been created . for the worship, obedience and carrying out of the orders of any other but . Allah. They are not there to bow to any other, to carry out the orders of . any other, to live in fear of any other, to follow the religion enjoined . by any other, to look upon any other as the maker and destroyer of one's . destiny, and to supplicate any other than Allah for help. (For further . explanation, see E.N. 63 of surat Saba., E.N. 2 of Az Zumar, E.N. 30 of . Al-Jathiyah).. Another thing that incidentally becomes quite obvious from this verse is . that the jinn are a separate and independent creation from men. This . brings out the error of the thinking of those people, who assert that some . people from among mankind have been called the jinn in the Qur'an, This . same thing is also confirmed and testified by the following verses of the . Qur'an : Al-An'am 100, 128, Al-Acraf 38, 179, Hud ; 119, A1-.hijr 27 to . 33, Bani Isra'il : 88, Al-Kahf : 50, As-Sajdah : 13, Saba : 41, Suad : 75, . 76, ha mim AsSajdah : 25, Al-ahqaf : 18, Ar-rahmaan. : 15, 39, 56. (For a . complete discussion of this q