Once the tank and associated plastic is out of the way you should have a clear view of the carburetor and all of its ducting. Carefully examine you carburetor to determine how to remove the old cable. On the 400ex carburetor as well as other Hondas I have work on there is a plastic cover on the right side of the carburetor body that is held in place by two Phillips head screws. Under this access cover is the bell crank mechanism that operates the carburetor. Now all you have to do is roll up the bell crank that the cable is attached to, slide the cable out of the slot, and you are ready for the final step in removing the cable. Carefully begin to snake the cable back from the handle bar area towards the carburetor noting the way it is run so when you install the new cable it will follow the same path. Again on all the Honda carbs I have worked the cable sheath has a metal 90deg. end on it that threads into the top of the carburetor. Loosen the jam nut on the sheath and unscrew the cable guide until it is free of the carburetor. On ATV's made by different manufactures the carburetors will most likely have a different method to attach and remove the cable from the carb. In all cases it should not take much effort to determine how it is done.. .  . Time to remove the old grips. If the grips are new or not very old and you wish to save them for use at a later date an easy way to remove them without getting into a tug-o-war with your ATV is to use a blast of compressed air. Just work your blower nozzle under the grip and give a blast of air while pulling the grip and it will slide off. If you don't have compressed air nor the brute strength to make the grip see things your way the only option left is to liberate them with razor knife. Please be careful here or you might really need a thumb throttle....if you know what I mean!? Remember when buying new grips get the correct type. They are made to work with twist throttles and the right grip has a slightly larger bore to accommodate the twist sleeve.. . Phew! We are half way home! Now we start putting it back together!. . OK, so far so good. Now that everything is removed it is time to start installing the new cable assembly. Yep, you guessed it, we are going to do everything we just did in reverse. Start by attaching the new cable assembly to the carburetor body by threading the 90deg. sheath elbow to the carburetor body. I ran mine down until I could see it starting to extend past the opening on the other end. At this time I orientated the cable sheath in the correct direction and locked it down with the jam nut. Attach the new cable to the bell crank using the same method as before. Replace the side cover and reinstall all removed ducting. Just as before, if you have a different model, the cable attachment method will differ slightly. Either way if you got the old cable off you should be able to get the new one on.. . Route the new cable the same way as the old cable using the factory installed guides and fold-over tabs. The cable should be hanging in position and ready for the twist housing to be installed. Now that the cable is routed and the carburetor has been reassembled you could reinstall the tank and its plastic fairings but the 'smart' mechanic will make sure that all is well before closing her up. It blows to have to remove the tank a second time for a minor adjustment. You be the judge of your mechanical abilities and then proceed as required.. . At this point we will make sure that the twist sleeve will fit over the bars and rotate smoothly. You may have to remove some paint from the area that is directly under the twist sleeve to allow it to rotate smoothly. My installation did not require me to remove any paint but if I did have to perform this chore my tool of choice would be my 4inch mini grinder with a sanding disk. Use what you have. Sandpaper by hand would be a better choice then your 8inch,two men and a boy industrial grinder with a 50 grit tige