Premature ejaculation occurs when you ejaculate too quickly and without control. It occurs before or shortly after penetration. Premature ejaculation interferes with the sexual pleasure of both you and your partner. It causes feelings of guilt,embarrassment, frustration, and depression. Premature ejaculation will cause stress in even the healthiest relationship.. . The Cause of Severe Premature Ejaculation.. . 1. Extreme levels of arousal caused by the overproduction of sex hormones. Simply stated - Hormones control "everything" that happens during a sexual performance - from the erection to the ejaculation!. . A normal ejaculation occurs when sexual excitement triggers glands, located inside your body, to begin a slow release of chemicals (hormones) into your blood stream. The slow release of these hormones tells your brain to gently stimulate the nerves at the glans (head of your penis). As you become more and more sexually excited, your body produces more and more of these hormones. The sensitivity becomes greater and greater until you reach the point at which time you ejaculate. Under normal circumstances the production of hormone is gradual and a man has the ability to control the sensations of sex.. . Premature Ejaculation occurs when your body produces too much hormone too fast. Your body becomes "over stimulated". The head of the penis becomes so sensitive that you ejaculate almost immediately. There is absolutely no control.. . This Extreme Sensitivity on the head of your penis causes the ejaculatory mechanism, inside your body, to go into "spasms". It's these spasms that cause the overpowering Urge to Ejaculate. The head of your penis becomes so sensitive and the urge is so strong that you ejaculate immediately.. If you slow down the production of excess hormone - you slow down the ejaculation.. . In fact, there's NO product, exercise, or technique that can stop severe premature ejaculation when used alone. NONE! Severe premature ejaculation is an extremely complex condition the causes of premature ejaculation are both physical and psychological. To cure premature ejaculation requires a combination of products that simultaneously attack and eliminate each cause. Only Last-Longer has a combination of products strong enough to eliminate ALL aspects of both the physical and psychological causes of premature ejaculation.. Quite often, when a man gains good ejaculatory control, he suddenly becomes much more interested in sex. And even if he doesn't, it might be nicer for both of you if he lasted longer.. . Faced with involuntary ejaculation, most men try to distract themselves during intercourse, believing that by thinking about other things, they can trick themselves into lasting longer. Usually, that only makes things worse.. . Don't tune out your body. TUNE INTO IT. You need to become more familiar with your different levels of sexual arousal. You also need to recognize how you feel as you approach your point of ejaculatory inevitability, the "point of no return." Once you recognize how you feel close to your point of no return, it's not difficult to make small sexual adjustments that allow you to remain highly aroused without ejaculating.. . Sexual arousal is a four-phase process. In the Excitement Phase, breathing deepens and erection begins. In the Plateau Stage, erection becomes full and you feel highly aroused. When arousal builds to a certain point, the next phase occurs, Orgasm with Ejaculation. Then during the Resolution Phase, breathing returns to normal and erection subsides. The key to ejaculatory control is to extend the Plateau Phase, to maintain arousal without triggering Orgasm and Ejaculation.. . If you want to learn ejaculatory control: