Purpose of life . . Have you ever asked yourself any of these questions: . What is the purpose of my life? . Where did I come from? . Why am I here? . Where am I going? . If so, you’re not alone. Most people have asked these questions. We want to understand the larger purpose and meaning of our lives. Without purpose, living day to day can become tedious and empty. . Fortunately, there are answers to these questions—answers that can give you a sense of purpose and help you find lasting happiness. Answers such as: . . You are a child of God. . Before you were born, you lived as a spirit with God, your Heavenly Father. . You came to Earth to learn to be more like God. . When your life on Earth is over, you can return to live with your Heavenly Father. . . What is the purpose of life? . . Have you ever thought there must be something more to life than just living day to day? . There is—much more. Your life has a divine purpose. . . God, your Heavenly Father, has prepared a marvelous plan for your happiness. When you realize that God has a plan for you, it is easier to understand why you are on this earth. God wants all of His children to progress and become more like Him. This time on Earth provides opportunities for you to grow and progress. Coming here allows you to: . . Receive a physical body. . Exercise agency and learn to choose between good and evil. . Learn and gain experience that will help you become more like your Heavenly Father. . . Why am I here on Earth? . . You are not on Earth by accident. There is a purpose for your mortal existence. You are here to receive a physical body, gain experience, and develop divine attributes—like justice, mercy, and love. . God did not send you here without a plan. His plan is designed to bring you, and all His children, greater peace in this life—no matter what its trials—and eternal joy in the life to come. It is a plan of eternal salvation and happiness. . . To partake of His plan, Heavenly Father invites you to: . . Come to know and love Him and His Son, Jesus Christ. . Learn to love others as He loves them. . Learn to choose right over wrong. . Commit yourself to Him through ordinances such as baptism. . . Why do good people suffer? . . Do you sometimes wonder why God allows all of the suffering in the world? Why is it that even the innocent or those who are trying to do good are subjected to pain, sickness, tragedy, and death? Perhaps even you or your family are experiencing such trials. These questions are some of the most difficult to answer and have been asked since the beginning of time. . You can gain some insight into the answers when you consider that God has a plan for your life and that He knows and understands you. As part of that plan, you live on this earth and are subject to natural and physical laws. You are also subject to the consequences of sin and the results of choices made by you and by others. Yet no matter what happens, you are a child of God and He loves you. He knows, and wants you to know, that your time on this earth is but a small part of your eternal life. God takes no pleasure in your suffering but He knows that difficulties, regardless of their cause, can bring His children closer to Him and can make them stronger. . . His son, Jesus Christ, suffered all things. When you turn to Him you can be assured that He understands and can help you through your trials with His love and direction. . . Trials and adversity are a part of this life. But when you understand that God has a purpose and plan for you, and that our Savior, Jesus Christ, can give you comfort and peace, even in the most difficult times, those trials take on a different light. There is no simple answer, but when you have faith in God and His plan, you can be assured that there is purpose in all that happens to us here on this earth. . . http://www.mormon.org/. . . He hopes that we will all become like him, just as the Savior commanded in his Sermon on the Mount. (See Matt. 5:4