Sex between a man and a woman is not just for procreation..haven't you ever read Song of Soloman? Its a little culturally strange but very errotic and inticing..there you will find the purpose of sex and its place between man and a woman. Those who are married and experiance this very real componant of intimacy or not likely to ever look for sex elsewhere. There is no way a trist with a stranger for a one night stand bought of sexual abandon could ever be as satisfying. Why? Cuz the two in question aren't going to grill each other with instructions on what they like and neither of them are going to be too inclined, generally speaking, to ask. Each are there to get their own and could really care less about each other. Sex has gotten so far off course in our society of what it could be that its next to impossible to go back and figure it out for most people. The initial plan for sex between a man and a woman was perfect. We are the ones that turned into some animalistic social atrocity that it is now. Every one wants it but they don't even know what it is, how to get it the right way, and they feel like crap and have to deal with the consequences later. More so women than men. As far as child birth is concerned..well, He planned that perfectly too in spite of the pain situation...have you ever heard of quickening? I'm not sure if all women experiance this but...right before birth during the most powerful part of labor a woman can experiance a rush of adrenaline so strong that its equivalent to same feeling one gets when sky diving for the first time. Then the baby is out and except for being sore..we forget all about it. The body is truely a miraculous design. While I would never call child birth pleasant..its mostly the pregnancy that woman have difficulty dealing with and I'm sure most moms would agree with me...its the love of the babies that keeps us giving birth. That and all the marvy attention one gets when one is preggy. So...one way to look at is this...if God didn't create sex to be pleasureable wouldn't we be pissed about that...I mean..its like complaining in the winter when it cold and in the summer when its hot. We are always wishing for something to change instead of changing ourselves. Love in Christ, ~J~ <><