I am not arab nor an arabist.. I do not personally know any Arabs by which I may know the answer.. Arabs live in Israel, Palestine, Jordan, and many other countries in the Middle East and Africa. . . REASON #1. They have been largely oppressed for the last  300 years by the Ottoman Empire, British Empire, the largely clandestine operations and overt warfair by Western nations (U.S., Britain,France, Canada, etc.)(read about Mossadegh and Kermit Roosevelt). Israel surely represents Western imperialism to its neighbors.. . REASON #2. Israel had not had a physical boundary on a map since the Romans punished the population of Judea for the Massada revolt (77 a.d.?), until 1948 by a resolution of the United Nations. At that time the U.N. recognised the CREATION of the state of ISRAEL and the state of PALESTINE. This theoretically settled an ongoing armed dispute between Jews and Arabs (ignited in 1948) in what was formerly British Palestine under British occupation. The borders for the Palestinian state were never drawn up in that agreement because they could not be agreed upon. Israel did receive borders. Palestine still waits for the border they were promised nearly 60 years ago while Israel has unilaterally waged wars (pre-emptive security actions with U.S. and western allied support or tacit approval) against SYRIA, EGYPT, LEBANNON, and the borderless PALESTINIAN state. In the process Israel seized ,and to this day STILL HOLDS, territory that formerly belonged to all four countries and has effectively widened its borders. . . Reason#3. The U.S. is the primary arms supplier for the region for BOTH SIDES of these conflicts. The Saudis and the Jordanians are really miffed that the combat fighters, choppers, and S.A.M. batteries the U.S. provides them are never the same "top-of-the-line" stuff that Israel gets yearly. Last year the Saudis rejected the U.S. brokered fighter jets it had ordered for some new Chinese models. They don't like the preferential treatment Israel gets in that regard at all because Israel is the enemy they are arming to fight.. . Reason#4. Israel has violated more U.N. sanctions and resolutions(29) than Iraq, Iran, or even Somalia. (Check it out, these things are recorded and can easily be googled from an official source.) The U.N. security council has five permanant members (including the U.S. ) with absolute singular veto power and 9 rotating members with no absolute veto. Security council measures must be unanimously approved (14-0). The U.S. has been the sole veto (13-1 } for nearly 80 of these referrals regarding Israeli aggression. So Arabs see this as proof that the United Nations is at least showing some preference toward Israel, and at worst not an institution that will effectively lobby for the rights of the Arab population of the Middle East for any reason.. . Reason #5. Israel operates a NUCLEAR WEAPONS FACTORY (reactor) they call DIMONA (check out Mordechai Vanunu's Israeli Vacation). These are WMD's. (WEAPONS of MASS DESTRUCTION) that have been proven to exist. Israel is thought to have 120 warheads and perhaps more. They have nuclear subs and are capable of a first strike any where any time on Earth. They have been nuclear capable since before President Kennedy toured the facility in 1963. THEY ARE NOT SIGNATORIES OF THE NUCLEAR NON PROLIFERATION TREATY! Only recently has Israel stopped denying they have these weapons but they still do not officially "RESPOND" to questions about them.. It was also recently determined the plant has polluted the largest aquifer in the area with radioactive waste and the contamination has fractionated to the surface water and is toxic as far south as Jordan.. . Reason #6. The Western media underscores Israeli deaths due to Palestinian suicide bombers, and the like, emphasizing the tragedy it is. They do not report the same way when it comes to Israeli soldiers shooting 9 year old girls or retarded people who get too close to the secu