I think their are a variety of reasons why people do not vote.  I am 33, and I have voted every year since I turned 18 because I believe it is my civic duty.  I firmly believe that if you do not vote, then you should not complain about the situation of our government..    I think the one of the biggest reason people do not vote is that they feel it will not make a difference.  There is nothing farther from the truth than that, as was shown in the 2000 presidential election.  Sure, your vote only counts once and may not seem like it matters much, but if the millions of people who felt that way got out and voted, elections that are as close as the 2000 one was could end up completely different..    I also believe that people do not vote because politicians do not get to all their constituents.  It has been shown over and over that politicians do not talk to the poor and uneducated because they have a low voter turn out.  If more politicians did, these people might feel like they are important, and get out to vote more.  Often, people just feel like their voice is not or will not be heard, and do not bother..    Education plays a role too.  Studies have shown that the more educated you are, the more likely you are to vote.  Whether or not it is because you take more interest in the issues, or because you do not have to work two or three jobs to feed you family and have the time to get out and vote.  .    In this country of two dominate parties, many people also feel that, well, they are basically the same so why bother.  Some people would rather vote for a third party candidate, but feel they would just be throwing their vote away, so why bother.  They do not realize that their vote does count because it would help the minor parties to reach the 5% threshold to receive campaign funding, allowing them to get their platforms out to more people.  .    I wish everyone would get out and vote.  Then elections might be a true representation of what our country wants.  I do not see it happening anytime soon, but we can all hope.