We the people of the Earth have been playing with the system of nature ever since we were born. Mother Nature gave us everything we needed, but we foolish sons exploited it to all extent. The day is not far, when the next Ice Age would take over the entire humanity. Men will die, animals would not survive, and no one will be left. We have done our part by polluting the environment, its time now to face the worst. Let me explain to you everything as brief as possible.. The cities of the world are contributing a lot to the Earth's pollution level. Industries, chemicals, sewage wastes and everything else that is non-biodegradable is accumulating like anything in the biosphere. The disposal is not being checked by the disposer, so the risk is growing. This non-biodegradable stuff is heating up as time is passing due to the motion of internal energy particles which used to be stable. They are thus releasing huge amount of heat energy, which is rising up. According the previously existing theories, this hot air should cool down as it goes up. But this is not happening. The quantity and velocity is so high that the cool air is unable to chill out the hot air, and heating up itself. As the heat energy theorem says, a hotter body heats the cooler body till they both reach the equilibrium temperature, the hot air currents are heating the freezing air of the poles, thus melting the ice caps rapidly. This is increasing the risk of floods in all the coastal regions of the world, and also, as fresh water is mixing with the saline water. This is leading to the decrease in the salt content of the saline water. This is then responsible for the change of currents of the saline water bodies, something for which we have never prepared or thought of. This is something that is going to flood up the entire world and sink everything.. Now, the next thing is the onset of the Ice Age, and the most fearsome thing in the world. The waste responsible for emitting heat would be then dissolved completely in water. So, the water would cool down, not heat up by the mere energy of the so little disposed waste. The hot air in the biosphere will also cool down slowly, as it is no more obtaining any heat from any source and all its energy is being absorbed by the water all around. Now, the freezing shall begin. Sun's evaporation is going to have no effect as it won't be able to react with the waters of the earth as the ozone layer will thicken up too much due to the accumulation of gas before hand.. This is then expected to be followed by storms, tornados and heavy snowfalls. It’s not completely possible to avoid Sun from evaporating the water. So this hot vaporized water would move up and mix with the already existing high velocity cold winds and result in formation of storms, the unstoppable ones. When the cold air would be subjected to a lot of hot air under high velocity, a swirl will start, chances are 90%. This would continue to suck up other objects and form a tornado. This tornado would take up surrounding air and keep growing in size. The break up of this is only possible of huge amount of heat is subjected in the heart of the tornado. Continuous storms along with a regular dip in temperatures will give rise to snowfalls, and this is how, the entire world would be covered with snow. No particular regions to say, but this may take place even at places like Sahara, Kalahari and the Amazon rainforests. All metropolitans residing along the coast are sure to be destroyed.. One more thing that could happen in between these phenomena is the cracking of the Earth’s centre. If this happens, the Earth would be destroyed before the onset of the Ice Age. This instinct is quite clear. When a very hot body is brought near a very cold body, there are chances that one of them cracks apart. So, either the crust of the Earth will be shattered, or the centre would be pieced apart. If the centre is pieced, the Earth will get small in size, so its rotation an