my sister droped out.  she always had trouble paying attention and being motivated enough to get everything done.  she was never in any kind of special education, but me being 5 years older than her i always helped her with her homework.  it was so hard to get her to pay attention long enough for me to explain something to her.  she just didnt want to learn, and nothing i did or didnt do made it that way.  the unfortunate thing is it took me longer for me to do my homework than it took her when she just sat down and did it.  right when i got home from school until dark, i worked on my homework.  some nights i didnt even finish.  i scraped by in school getting Cs and Ds every year.  i barely graduated.  i was the one in special education from my 3rd grade year all the way up until 8th grade, and then they put me back in for my senior year.  i went to college and took a learning disability class, and found my IQ was actually in the low 200s.  but was also diagnosed with a learning disability that required that i have 2x the time everyone else got on all timed tests.  i found this strange, because i'm not really good at any one thing.  i have a somewhat high IQ, and was in special education, but at the same time wasnt a savant at anything.  maybe i just wasnt trying hard enough, or looking at things wrong.  about 6 months ago my sister paid the money to get her GED that way.  she barely passed, and now has a GED.  her employers (if she had any) would see her GED the same way they'd see a regular high school deploma.  the only people that wouldent is a college, and she really has no plans now or distant future of going to college.  she saw what happened to me, and doesnt see the need. (i went to a community college, got the state to OK me for a good grant, and then couldent get a penny of it, since my father could not verify his income (this was one of the requirements for this college to view the grant as legitamate.) with the college itself.  so while the state said i was approved to use all that money tward my education, i could not use a single penny of it.  halfway through my first year, i realized i could not afford college, even a community college with my current job, and left my parents house against their will, leaving without telling them, and marrying someone 2 years later that i met on the internet.  my sister figures she wont fair well in college, let alone be able to afford it, so she sees no problem with the GED she has.  right now shes in san fransisco somewhere.  i know shes into all kinds of drugs, and our parents are very worried about her.  they understand now they cannot control me or her by demanding us to do things anymore. and that was one very important lesson i taught them by leaving home.  my mother is a pre-school teacher and unfourtunatly still treats us both like 3 year olds.  sadly i find this comforting as she's done it my whole life, and i dont know what its like to have a mother treat me as though i truly am my own age.  my sister went the oposite direction i did, and completly defys everything everyone says.  no one can do or say anything to help her see what she's doing to herself.