Ahem...At any rate, it's a well-established historical fact disputed by virtually NO ONE that they existed in Israel for at least a thousand years (see Tel Dan Inscription, possibly 500ish years longer) before being driven out into exile.. They've essentially been refugees for 2000 years. Some might argue that after 2000 years, they've forfeited rights to the land. I think this is not based on any logical arguments, since no one could explain WHY this is equivalent to a forfeiting of the land.. Further, the reason we have no other people group to compare them to is that no other people group has ever survived without a home land for more than 200 years. (Interesting trivia.). . For the record, scholars that take the Bible with a grain of salt would insinuate that the Israelites were a NATIVE population that developed a body of myths to explain where they came from. IN this line of thinking, the Israelites have been in the land for much longer thn 1000 years, simply as an extension of natives.. . . . For the record, according to this argument, the Palestinians still have some claim to the land also, since it's been their homeland for the past 100 years of so. . Strangely enough, before that time the land had been virtually uninhabited for a period of time. Mark Twain noted that when he visited.... Hm. . Anyway. That's why the land was divided into 2 countries, one was called "Jordan" and the other was set aside to eventually become a Jewish state. Jordan was for the arab palestinians, and the other section was, obviously, for Jewish folks.. . I think this is where reasonable people really begin to debate. Was Jordan an acceptable homeland for the Palestinians? and a million other questions.. . . . -Stephen. . . P.S. Ancient Israel did not succesfully eliminate all previous inhabitants of the land, and further, more made the area their home while Israel occupied it. Philistines didn't get to Israel until after Israel was already there (prob. about 12th century B.C.). . . P.P.S. The claims about Mt. Nebo are patently inaccurate. Mt. Sinai (he says this is a reference to mt. Nebo in Jordan) is what the mountain is called in the Biblical writings, which are almost universally regarded as being in Sinai, not Jordan. Those who disagree (there are a few scholars who disagree, though not very many) place the mountain in Arabia.