Ilegal immigrants, hispanic do you necessarily have to outstand HISPANIC in such a perspection? You forgot to highlight it you know! Well... first of all they don't understand some laws due to the lack of education they might have gotten. In which this is understandable and recalled as ignorance. The laws are always different in all countries, might be slightly or completely different. What I don't understand is what laws are you exactly stating? If you are talking about what has been going on since march, They deserve a better future and to work here if they have been here already and have proof of it for the last 2 years. Other wise then they should get a job permit that allows them to work here for a while and earn money then go back. It's fair this way because, the people that have been here for more than 2 years already speak some English, have a life here, and there are people who have been here for even 21 years come on. Think about it, put yourself in their position, having to grow up in a world and then all of a sudden you have to start over like if you lost your memory completely you would feel lost, disoriented, lonely, comfused of what to do. I have a friend who has been here since the age of 2 and another the age of 7 they don't know anything about where they were born. The one that was 2 doesn't even speak spanish and the one 7 hardly even speaks chinesse. I am half american and half mexican. I love both countries but hate the way things are coming out. I can't even go to Las Vegas because of the Gas prices are so high because of war. These laws are completely crazy, getting the latinos out will bring the u.s. to the great depression one more timel. The economy will suffer completely. Come on Don't you see the asians with the nice Mercedes venz, Corvettes, and all those expensive cars. Latinos with cars worth for $1,000 dollars or less. They work for a minimum or even lower wadge and the asians... they won't work for anything less than $8 dollars an hour (while they are teens...) They like to own business. Whites, you guys are more like in between latinos.In the middle of the economy. I have nothing against asians since my grandma is Chinesse and I love her. Well... Latinos/ mexicans just come here to work and earn money, help their families in order for them to have an education unlike they had. That should resolve your question buddy....