Yes it is, because the current understanding of gravity is fundamentally flawed.  Right now it's believed that the charge of an electron cannot change, but pretty soon I'm sure we will find out that this is not true.. . The charge on electrons balance out on the scale that is our solar system, so it's hard to tell when some are pulled off or some are pulled in, but the electrons always balance out the charge that the planet carries at the time.  Gravity wouldn't cease working immediately.  For this to happen, each and every electron on Earth would have to be charge up at the same time, and this is not how the energy operates.  It would pour in from some region of space, and if the amount of energy required to have us floating around came in all at once it would cause gigantic hurricanes and tornadoes and lightning bolts, and we would begin discharging it to the other planets in our solar system, which would keep the violent weather going for even longer.. . But if the stream was gradual, eventually the electrons would gain a charge large enough to ease the effects of gravity.  The green or red electric fire would also be much more common, or St. Elmos fire as it's called.  Scientists wouldn't have to wonder how the Ultrasaurus was able to keep his head up without bursting all his blood vessels, or how the ancients were able to haul 30 ton blocks 200 miles to build the Great Pyramid or the 120 ton Baalbek stones in Lebanon.. . But I don't think this is going to happen to our planet.  I think we've already passed that time in our history.  Right now, I think we're losing electrons through tornadoes and hurricanes.  As the electric current that powers our Sun weakens, the elements that are stored in that celestial body will want to regain the electrons that they lost when the current was at its strongest.. . 2012 baby.  Some awesome galactic, electric current stuff that nobody saw coming is going to build up.  I'm sure if we knew how these currents worked, we'd be able to look up into the Heavens and know what energies are building up and what's heading our way.  I'm sure somebody already does, but you won't be hearing about it.  It's too important.