water on fire. . Engineering imagination lights up the fountain.. .  . by Said Shakerin  It is impossible to imagine our existence without water and fire. We rely on them to such a degree that in many cultures they are considered sacred elements. They are also like the opposites that attract, because one quenches or evaporates the other. Perhaps that's why it is so striking when human ingenuity devises ways for the two of them to cooperate in artful display.. . Engineers and artists have teamed to create combinations of fire and water that have dazzled people at tourist attractions, festivals, and the Olympic Games. Integrating flames into water fountains is an intriguing task, which designers of fountains have accomplished using both gaseous and liquid fuels.. . Designing features with water and fire requires knowledge of fluid systems, control technology, and combustion. As such, mechanical engineers are in good position and can play an important role in designing the next generation of fountains with fire.. . At the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif., mechanical engineering professor Ed Pejack and student Eric Eubanks designed a small-scale fountain for educational and demonstration purposes, adapting parts used in irrigation and a camping fuel can. The fountain has eight water outlets positioned in a circle with a propane jet at the center. A slight wind can cause the flame to fluctuate or separate. Fuel and water flows are regulated with manual valves.. .  . The cauldron at the Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City is a high-profile example of an emerging trend among fountain designers to make spectacles combining fire and water. The steel and glass tower, designed by WET Design of Los Angeles, stands 117 feet high. .  . . . Alan Robinson and Mark Fuller invented a fountain that illuminates water jets with colored flames. It is covered by U.S. Patent 4,858,826. The colors are produced by injecting pressurized solutions of metallic salts in atomized form into the main gas burner. Several injection points, each with a different salt, can produce different colors. A computer system controls the amount and timing of each colorant. The nozzles aimed outward keep the water jets separate from the flame. An ultraviolet sensor is used for safety, and the fuel flow is shut off when the main burner or the pilot is extinguished for any reason.. . Safety is always an issue with water fountains. They combine water and electricity and, therefore, applicable safety measures must be followed when building fountains. Furthermore, fountains that incorporate fire pose additional considerations and thus require expertise and attention to appropriate safety details.. . Kiki Pettit, a computer programmer who later turned to computer graphics and special effects, is an artist in blending fire with water. She has designed, built, and installed water fountains that incorporate liquid fuel to produce floating flames that flow with water. From her fountains, one can scoop up a handful of water with flames on top and hold it without being hurt.. . One of her most challenging projects has been Egeria, which took six months from planning to installation. Egeria was a Roman goddess who wept so long after her lover died that she melted into a fountain. A filmmaker, Sandy Gentile, followed Egeria as it was being built and produced a feature documentary called "Firefall: The Road to Burning Man.". . Egeria is 12 feet tall with three tiers and was first installed at the 2002 Burning Man, a weeklong arts festival held yearly at Black Rock Desert in Nevada. More on Egeria and the festival can be found at www.burningideas.com and www.burningman.com, respectively.. . The fountain uses 1,500 gallons per hour of water for each tier, cascading down so each tier adds to the one below. About 27 gallons of fuel are burned in a typical run of 1.5 hours, before the water gets too hot to hold. Pettit emphasizes that engineering is as much a par