Paul made  a very important contrast between Adam and Jesus. . he said that the experience of the world revolves around these two individuals. By the disobedience of one of them, the world fell into sin and misery, and by the obedience of the other there is hope. This message is integral to the meaning of the Gospel and the experience of mankind. In 1 Corinthians 15, Jesus is called the last Adam (interestingly, not the second Adam - but the last, because what Jesus has done is definitive, final, and non-repeatable. . WHAT ADAM AND JESUS HAD IN COMMON. Romans 5:12-21 . 1. First, both Adam and Jesus were representatives. They did not act purely on their own, or for their own interests. They both represented a constituency of people other than themselves, whose interests hinged upon their actions. This can be seen in the use of the word 'many' in v19, where Adam's sin made many people to be sinners, and Jesus' obedience made many to be righteous. In Adam's case, he represented the whole of mankind. When he sinned against God at the beginning, all mankind sinned against God. None of us would have acted differently. The result of his sin is that all the human race, with the exception of Jesus Christ, are tainted by the sin of Adam. This has profound consequences - it means that sin is not simply a matter of our actions, but of our very nature. Our inclination is to sin. We are not sinners because we sin: we sin because we are sinners.. Similarly, as a result of Jesus' action and obedience, many are made righteous. There is an effect that spills over into the lives and natures of others. Who are the many in this case? They are those for whom he died, just as Adam's sin affected those whose representative he was. Jesus, who loved the church, gave himself to save his church, and acted before God in a representative capacity on her behalf. Only because this is so can those who trust in Him for salvation be made righteous.. 2. Secondly, both Adam and Jesus were covenant representatives.The older theologians call them 'covenant, or federal heads', recognising that God laid covenant stipulations before them. Covenant is a bond that is sovereignly administered, with mutual obligations and promises between the contracted, or covenanted parties. God set before Adam a charter for blessing, when he set him in his world, opening up for Adam all the riches of his creation. The one prohibition was that he was not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. To know good was Adam's position, and he might have continued in that good had he obeyed. But he disobeyed. He broke the covenant. This covenant is called the 'covenant of works' by the theologians, because Adam's action was the security of his blessing. When he failed to live up to the obligations God laid on him, his position was lost.. Similarly, God sent Jesus into the world with a work to do. In the Old Testament, Isaiah spoke of the Messiah as God's servant (cf. Isaiah 42:1). Jesus was conscious of having come into the world to do the will of the one who sent him (John 6:38). All He did as the Saviour of sinners He did by way of covenant obligation, knowing that obedience to God would result in God fulfilling the promises given to Him before the beginning of the world. So it was for the joy set before him in what the theologians call the eternal covenant of redemption that Christ endured the cross, believing, even when he was forsaken of God, that he would see the result of his soul's labour and be satisfied. . 3.Thirdly, both Adam and Jesus received the just settlement of God's covenant obligation. Adam broke covenant and was cursed. Jesus kept covenant and was blessed. In Adam, all mankind was cursed. In Jesus, the church was blessed. God's justice and righteousness are displayed in the manner in which both parties received from God what their respective actions required to receive.. ADAM AND JES