Because as long as there is everything in the field that the horse needs, they're not really worried about getting out of it.  Horses like habit, routine and safety.  If they feel safe in their field they'll stay in it (this is evidenced by the fact that a horse tends to feel safe in it's stable, and then if the stable begins to burn, the horse will be so terrified that it won't want to leave, as it has identified the stable with safety and therefore wants to stay in the 'safe' place).  In addition, horses on their own are fairly laid back beasts and won't really take the trouble to jump if they don't have to.  They are also herd animals and feel that safety is in numbers - they are not going to leave their companions for the danger of being on their own (a horse's brain still believes that there are sabre tooth tigers behind every bush, it's the instinct of a prey animal, and their brains tell them that 8 eyes and ears are better than two, therefore it's best to stay with the other three in the field then head out on your own).. . Saying that, I used to work in a number of different riding establishments and we had a few that had learned to open gates, stable doors etc when they felt bored.  Some horses will learn to jump the fence and then there's no stopping them!  Cloud and Bella used to pop over the fence and wander off all the time - Cloud had be kept with a specific group of horses to feel happy enough to stay put.  In fact, that's the reason the barn ended up with him - his owner wasn't doing anything with him, he was bored and used to jump out of his own field, trot up the hill and jump into ours, so eventually the owner gave him to us.. . A horse that is being bullied will often jump out of it's field to get away, and if a stallion is in a field and can see or smell a mare in season it'll try to jump out now matter how high you make the fence (and end up injuring itself in the process).. . There is a certain amount of conditioning involved, as a person above has noted, but please note that a horse is never a pony!  A young horse (or pony, for that matter) is a foal (a male horse is a colt until it turns four, unless it is gelded.  Then it's a gelding, no matter how old it is.  A female horse is a filly until it turns four), not a pony!  A pony is a type of equine that is 14.2hh (147.5cm) or less, and a horse is a type of equine that is 14.3hh (149cm) or taller.  Ponies and horses have different attributes, confirmation and personalities and should not be confused with each other.  There is one exception: an arab (or arabian, for Americans) is always a horse no matter how tall it is, it is never a pony.