I don't know who actually designed it, but I do know that the original QWERTY layout of a typewriter keyboard was designed to maximize English language typing speed while slowing down a typist just enough that keys would not stick.. . If you have ever typed on an old manual typewriter, you may have noticed that the arms that have the letters on them are arranged in a semi-circular layout. Striking two keys close together too rapidly could cause one key to be going down while another was rising, and cause them to get hung up on one another. The QWERTY layout was designed to keep often-used letters and combinations of letters from being struck too closely together. A good typist could still achieve a reasonably good speed without having to worry about the keys jamming.. . The QWERTY arrangement simply stuck around. Typing lessons are built around the old arrangement, so most people in the Western world learn to type using that arrangement of keys. Now that there are no keys to interfere, that arrangement is not necessarily the best arrangement. There is another keyboard layout, called the DVORAK layout, which keeps all the most commonly used keys on the home row, which minimizes reaches and stress on the hands which result in repeated-use injuries, such as carpal-tunnel syndrome. The problem is that most keyboards are still designed in the QWERTY layout, and that is how most people have learned to type. . . Reaching a good typing speed requires your hands to develop a type of "muscle memory" in typing often used words and combinations of letters. Your hands learn the combinations, and when you want to type a common word, such as "the" you don't even really think about what your hands are doing because they have memorized that combination. Relearning how to type on a new keyboard system means relearning all those combinations.. . I have actually looked into getting a DVORAK keyboard. The problem is that from what I have read, it takes a while to retrain yourself from one method to the other. Also, trying to use both keyboard arrangements (switching back and forth from one to the other, such as having a DVORAK keyboard at home and a QWERTY keyboard at work) can cause problems, most notably multiple mistakes. If you are going to use one, you need to stick to one or the other, and as our world is set up on the QWERTY model, I thought I had better stick to that. They say that the faster your QWERTY type speed, the more difficult it is to learn DVORAK, and my speed is just high enough that I don't know if I want to go through the hassle of relearning how to type. . . I imagine that someday, the DVORAK layout will become more common, and may in fact replace the QWERTY layout. For now, however, we are stuck with an arrangement that made a lot of sense back when keyboards were first designed, but which has now become obsolete.