What Treatments are Effective?. .  . . Many behavioral treatments have been found to be effective for cocaine addiction, including both residential and outpatient approaches. . .  . . It is important to match treatment to the needs of the individual.  A behavioral therapy component that is showing positive results in many cocaine-addicted populations, is contingency management.  Contingency management uses a voucher-based system to give positive rewards for staying in treatment and remaining cocaine-free.  Based on drug-free urine tests, the patients earn points, which can be exchanged for items that encourage healthy living, such as joining a gym, or going to a movie and dinner.. .  . . Cognitive-behavioral therapy is another approach.  Cognitive-behavioral coping skills treatment, for example, is a short-term, focused approach to helping cocaine-addicted individuals become abstinent from cocaine and other substances. . .  . . Through education about abuse and addiction, self-awareness, and self-help, individuals learn to take personal responsibility to recognize the situations in which they are most likely to use cocaine, avoid these situations when appropriate, and cope more effectively with a range of problems and problematic behaviors associated with drug abuse.. .  . . Therapeutic communities, or residential programs with planned lengths of stay of 8 to 12 months or more, offer an alternative to those in need of treatment for cocaine addiction.  Therapeutic communities are often comprehensive, in that they focus on the re-socialization of the individual to society, and can include on-site vocational rehabilitation and other supportive services.  Therapeutic communities typically are used to treat patients with more severe problems, such as co-occurring mental health problems (e.g., depression), behavioral problems, or criminal involvement.. .  . . Remember, it is very difficult to handle this problem without the help of experienced professionals and the support of others.. .  . . This is not a problem that passes with time.  Cocaine abuse is a life and death matter.