There are many types of navigation aids. The magnetic compass shows the heading of the airplane (see compass, magnetic). Magnetic interference may make the compass inaccurate. A correction card allows for these errors. The compass card swings when the airplane turns or flies in rough weather, making it difficult to read. . . The directional gyro holds its compass card steady with a gyroscope. It does not seek north but must be set with a knob to agree with the magnetic compass. It must be reset every 15 minutes. The gyrocompass needs no resetting. It combines the functions of the magnetic compass and the directional gyro. . . Radio and radar are valuable air navigation tools. Air-to-ground communications include low to ultrahigh frequency range radio signals. The radio compass, or automatic direction finder, is a receiving set with a directional antenna that indicates the heading to a transmitter. One of the pilot's most effective course-guidance aids is the very-high- frequency omnidirectional range (VOR) receiver. Instrument landing system (ILS) equipment guides aircraft in landing. (See also radio; radar.) . . An instrument that relieves strain on long flights is the automatic pilot, or Gyropilot. It keeps the plane on course without the pilot's help. Gyroscopes control the plane's elevators, ailerons, and rudder.. . . A large plane has so many engine instruments that they are mounted on a separate panel under the supervision of a flight engineer. These devices indicate when the engine is warmed up, delivering full power in takeoffs, or operating at maximum efficiency. . . The tachometer measures the revolutions per minute (rpm) of the engine shaft. Thermometers check the oil, carburetor, and cylinder-head temperatures. One type is a Bourdon tube, a curved, flexible metal device. The liquid inside it expands when it is heated, causing the tube to straighten. The motion drives a pointer. Some thermometers use a thermocouple of two dissimilar metals that generate electricity when heated. . . The oil-pressure gauge and fuel-pressure gauge show the pressures at which lubricants are forced into the bearings and fuel is delivered to the engine. A manifold-pressure gauge registers the power the engine is developing by indicating pressure in the intake manifold. . . The engine analyzer detects ignition and vibration disorders in an engine. The flight engineer scans the screen of a cathode-ray tube for deviations from normal. The synchroscope is an indicator on multiengine aircraft that is used to maintain the same rpm on each engine and thereby prevent vibration.. . . and on and on...