We were created to be in loving fellowship with our creator. God is love and we are the jewel in the crown of His creation and the object of His love. . . But what worth is our love of God if it not given freely and unconditionally. You might say that cut’s both ways and you’d be right even though you may not see it at first glance, God’s love for us is freely given and it is unconditional. God proved that when He sent His only Son Jesus to die for us so that we could be with Him. God has already done everything that He needs to do to ensure that we spend our eternity with Him. It only remains for us to reciprocate, to love Him back; and we can only do that by applying our free will. If we did not have free will then our love would be automatic, not by choice and therefore not love at all.. . The truly wonderful thing though is that we don’t have to wait as you put it, for judgement. An eternity spent with a loving God begins in this life not the next, there is no waiting, now is the day of our salvation. Through Jesus Christ we can experience God’s love for us in this life, we can know the pure joy of His love right now. If we wait until that day to get to know Him, it will be too late.. . You my friend are in danger of letting Satan condemn you before your time. Don’t let him deceive you into believing that God doesn’t love you. Reject his lies and place your faith in Jesus.. . 2Co 6:2. (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succored thee: behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.) (KJV). . Eph 3:16-19. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. (KJV). . Joh 3:16-17. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved. (KJV). . God Bless You