Hmmm... The answer is a complicated one. But to be brief. Apart from historical antisemitism in Germany there was one more factor. In Germany during World War I the conscripts from one school class usually served in the same unit. Comradeship improved both the fighting potential and discipline of the unit. Now imagine this, the war ends, all your classmates that went to war are dead. You witnessed the death of most of them. What are your feelings? Regret, sorrow, and most certainly hate. Hate towards those that made huge profits on the war. Because they didn't fight, they didn't die, they simply made money. Now apart from you, one person from your class is still alive, the only Jew in your class. He didn't go to war because he didn't want to and his father and family made every effort for him no to go, they bribed, they begged and he was spared the fate of your friends. Your family demanded that you go, they thought it was you responsibility to fight for your country and your people. You will hate him too, because you will feel cheated, why did you endure 4 years of rats, artillery fire, hunger, death, disease? That Jew did not suffer, that Jew did not sacrifice. I believe you can see my point. Now simply put one and two together and you can see how Hitler and many World War I veterans blamed the Jews for their misfortune. Don't forget that Hitler was a war hero by our standards. A brave soldier, wounded on the field of battle. He was DEMOCRATICALLY elected, the German people wanted him to rule. . And his father was NOT Jewish.. I encourage you to read "All quiet on the western front" by Remarque. You can almost see the gas chambers there. Even though Remarque was a critic of Hitler and emigrated from Germany in the 30's, he was still the survivor of that conflict and this pacifistic book can show you what a common soldier thinks of war. I will try to translate a passage myself, I have never read it in English, there's a dialogue that goes like this: "[...] then why does the war go on? - There must be people that make profit on it. [...]". . PS: I've read "Mein Kampf" (a badly written book if you ask me) and there is no mention of his Jewish father. His father was an Austro-Hungarian civil servant and a very unpleasant man. No serious biography of Hitler considers his father's Jewish background, simply because there is no proof. Even though it would fit nicely from a psychological point of view there are no facts that support it. And history deals in facts not speculation.