Reincarnation refers to several things according to degrees of encampment, but the common thinking of one soul traversing multiple physical bodies, and lifetimes, is a misunderstanding.. . The misunderstanding comes from the eastern Prophets speaking of God every single moment recreating, or reincarnating all of creation. To the example of when people are not aware of Truth, they continually die and are reborn, this means they are infirm in faith, and built their houses on shifting sands.... . There are many other examples where it says lifetimes, but this too was parable, simile and/or analogy in the very same way as Jesus spoke of those unbelievers of His time and place, "Let the dead bury the dead.". . Those that are not alive in unchanging Truth are continually dying and being reborn into new life God gives them, each time with knowledge of the past mistakes, but many believe it is a literal physical death and new rebirth over eons.. . The closest thing to this in Christianity for example, is the return of Elijah in John the baptist, but this was not of Elijah's soul, but of the One God's given spiritual qualities being the same purpose in both persons.. . This is also one reason why Jesus said "If you knew Moses, you would know me..." and in the old testament God said to Moses "I have made Aaron to be my Prophet, and made you as Me." So God chose Moses to be God on the earth as much as was perceivable in those days, and Jesus more so in His time because the people were more able to comprehend God's presence.. . Not to say the human qualities were equal, nor were the human qualities Godhead, but that God chose each of those Divine persons to be God so that the peoples might have a likeness to endeavor for, according to their followers ability.. . That "reincarnation" of God's purpose in Divine messengers is the most necessary of the understandings to master, for in every age God sends Teachings of the highest qualities attainable by the people of the time, and place, in Divine person to bring the people out of the perversions and division of faith.. . Reincarnation in fact is an improper translation of the Sanskrit et al. Vedas and Buddhist scriptures. Return, Resurrection, or other term is more technically accurate, since God doesn't "incarnate", but is Spirit which the incarnation is recipient to the powers of, but in no way in itself could be said to be Holy and Complete as Spirit is in of itself.. . "Behold I am with you, even unto the end of the age." -Jesus . . (Only later versions of the Greek read "world, rather than "age".. . Jesus' Return is in "the Glory of the Father.". . Baha'u'llah means Glory of God...