years , many years ago it was a belief that if you lived in a trailer you were poor, you were the scum of the earth,  only low life's, whores, drug dealers or welfare cases lived in these parks.. Its not that way any more they are no longer called trailers they are call modular homes ,some cost more than some ,contract built houses, they are now built like a house and some house's or using the same fast assembly used in making the so -called-trailers. These homes have to go threw the bank and get mortgage  unless a person can pay 50.000 dollars to over 100.000 dollars and higher if custom made. So some people need to up date their idea of the manufactured homes....and as far a parks....they have county standards now and the home has to be a certain age and underpinned, some of the home that or owned by the person living in them buy the land and have the home in subdivisions and you, unless you are a expert after these homes have been brick underpinned and cement foundations ,you wouldn't know if they were made in a factory on made on site.....so its time for the stigma of the "trailer" was ungraded.   but there is still some of the old trailer parks that I mentioned at the beginning and somethings never change, but for the most the day of the "trailer" and it's bad rep is on it's way out....thank God.  I've lived in my manufactured home for 12 years I bought it new, then I when into a subdivision and bought the land, MY husband works everyday except Sunday....I've worked all my life we take care of our home, we don't do drugs, we have a king cab truck, a GM van, a Buick, and a 1973 Volkswagen, all paid for. we have 4 acres that connect to one of the main rivers in the county and is stocked with trout about 10miles up, we pay our utilities on time ,everything else in our house is paid for. We have 5 children between us and 13 grandchildren...all the kids or over 24 yrs of age the oldest is 31 and lives in  Australia, all the grand kids are well taken care of. I have a college education, and graduated from high school.  And a lot of people that live in modular home buy them because they can be set up and  livable with in a month where with a site built home sometimes it takes almost a year sometimes.  So people that think "trailers" or so bad probably have never been in the new homes and maybe need to take a look before you judge someones home.