The origins of bellydance are unknown although there are many theories floating around so it is not certain whether the dance form is pre-Islamic or not.  However, most theories believe that it was at least pre-Islamic.  Bellydancing in general has been stereotyped as something like stripping among the western world although it is no more like stripping than flamenco or ballroom.  Up until the early 20th century bellydancing was not done in the ultra sexy bra and belt combos seen today in nighclubs around the world.  Instead long loose dresses were worn and a siple scarf or belt may have been tied around the waist.  The oficial Islamic stance on bellydancing in public is that it should not be done nor should any dance.  The only acceptable dance situations are in your home with your blood related family and for some close friends of the same sex who are also believers, in front of your husband, and some times at a wedding(this is not really suposed to be allowed it's more just a time when you can get away with it).  Traditionally a good Muslim would never dance in front of anyone who did not meet those above mentioned criteria.  Bellydancing has generally been done for women by women and is not the sexual dance that many people mistakenly assume it is.  Dancing of any kind was generally only performed in public by women of loose morals and by gypsies.  Today in Islamic counrties this generally still holds true.  Most of the top name bellydancers (such as Dina and Lucy are notorious for their other services which the render, they deny that they offer these services but everyone knows what really goes on).  Although some countries are a little more lax on enforcing Islamic ideas and because each family is different in what they view as being acceptable or what they will ignore there are many younger arab women who are dancing in public at nightclubs (not professionally just club hopping) but among professional dancers they tend to be only nominally Muslim  altough there are some who would argue that.  The fact is that if a  woman from a Muslim family decides to dance she does it in a different city far away under a fake name so that hopefuilly her family will never find out and be publicly shamed.  Some dancers will take up hijab and perform hajj when their reputation becomes so bad that their saftey is threatened but they generally return to dancing after several months at most.  Once they have children they also tend to stop dancing and take up hijab.  Bellydancing can be very tempting especially among the poor because there is a potential to make a lot of money and in a place where jobs are few and money is tight some do what it takes to put bread on the table.  It is actually interesting to note that in many places for example egypt there have been fewer and fewer Egyptians who dance and foreigners have been moving in to take their place.  Almost anywhere you go you will find yourself watching a bellydancer from russia or europe.  A few people in Egypt actively try to preserve the dances and strive to elevate them in the public's eye to an artform.  Mahmoud Reda is a prime example.  I would highly recommend reading a book called "A Trade Like Any Other: Female Singers and Dancers in Egypt" to really delve further into the subject.  There was also a follow up done called "An Hour For God" which is available online to read.  Both are by Karin VanNeukirk (not sure on spelling just guessing from memory).  I know that that doesn't exactly answer your question but there really is no black and white response to this there are many facets, many aspects that contribute to this subject and much more than what can really be said here on Yahoo! Answers.  If you are interested you may email me through my site http://www.middleeasterndance.net and I will be glad to talk more about it with you.