Bloody Mary: The Unauthorized Biography. Controversy and intrigue are just two of the ingredients that go into this classic cocktail. Al Martinez spills the story..  .  . RELATED LINK:A Better Bloody.  To sip a Bloody Mary in New York's St. Regis Hotel is to be in the presence of a greater power. Not God, but Fernand "Pete" Petiot, who, it is said, invented what was to become America's favorite morning-after drink, the hangover remedy, the compelling and infamous hair of the dog. . . I sat in the very room, the King Cole Bar, where Pete and the Bloody were introduced to America in the 1930s. While not quite a cathedral, it is nonetheless a lounge of exquisite secular taste, enclosed in the comfort of dark wood and dominated by a large mural of the merry old soul himself, surrounded by an entourage from the lyrical world of the nursery rhyme.. . According to drinking lore, encapsulated in Christopher O'Hara's book The Bloody Mary (with William Nash photographs of such glory that you want to drink the pages), the Bloody was invented by bartender Petiot at Harry's New York Bar in Paris. The basic recipe consisted of vodka, tomato juice, Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne pepper.. . Legend has it that he named it after Queen Mary Tudor, or Bloody Mary, the Catholic daughter of Henry VIII, who, during her five-year reign, managed to kill off an impressive number of Protestants. Even by the standards of 16th-century England, the slaughter of some 300 "heretics" seemed excessive.. . Others ascribe the name to a bar in Chicago called "Bucket of Blood," and still others believe it was based on the complaints of a London visitor to Harry's Bar who kept drinking Petiot's tomato juice libation while going on about his wife, Mary. Using one of England's most popular adjectives, the man declared his wife was a bloody nag and bloody impossible, among other bloody evils. So Petiot, in a fit of whimsy, named his drink the Bloody Mary. You can believe any bloody story you like, but most seem to prefer the influence of the bloody Queen.. . However, for those who cant toward a good scare, there is the urban legend of a woman named Mary who was injured in an accident that tore her face so badly she bled to death. Her spirit is said to roam about, and if you stand before a mirror and say Bloody Mary three times, her mangled visage will appear. If so, dash for the door or she'll rip you up, too. You'll surely need a drink after that.. . To continue the more likely tale, John Jacob Astor fell in love with the Bloody at Harry's, and brought Petiot and his drink to The St. Regis, which the Astors owned. Word of its existence spread like a dirty joke, and in no time at all, the Bloody became a standard morning-after libation and, later, one of the drinks favored at a modern invention called brunch, leading it to become at one time the third most popular cocktail in the country. Fearful that the name might offend, however, the Astors renamed it the Red Snapper. But that, forgive me, lacked the snap of the original and ended up in the barrel of bad ideas, where the mango Martini and the Pet Rock reside.. . There are as many ways to prepare a Bloody Mary as there are to cook potatoes. King Cole bartender Gavin Fitzgibbon, himself somewhat of a cocktail historian, assured me that his Bloody was concocted with the same recipe created by Petiot. "We do not," he proclaimed in the grand style of a purist, "attempt to popularize it." Unlike those days in Paris, however, the drink at The St. Regis sells for $17, and while it is a very nice drink, it is not worth three times the price of the taxi that took me to the hotel in the first place.. . In quest of the elusive queen of Bloodies, I tasted samples in such diverse venues as a noisy singles joint called Gladstone's on an L.A. beach, Melrose Place's four-star Bastide, and the elegant Bull and 