Shedding is a natural loss of hair in dogs that allows the new coat to come in.  All dogs shed; some more then others.  There is no such thing as a non-shedding dog, unless you have a completely hairless dog, such as the American Hairless Terrier, however shedding varies greatly from breed to breed. .  . . The majority of breeds that are considered "very light shedders" are usually the breeds that need to be clipped, stripped and/or  scissored.  Because their hair falls out at a much slower rate, if they are not properly groomed they are prone to matting.. .  . . Some breeds have a seasonal shedding season in the spring, as their winter coats are lost.  But if your dog is an indoor dog it may not be outside enough for the dog's body to register the change of season, so he may shed all year round.  Today dogs are bred mostly as companions and some breeds are not meant to live outdoors, so do not start leaving your dog outside all day long in hopes to stop the shedding.  Longhaired dogs may appear to shed more, but it is really just the length of their hair that gives that illusion.. .  . Some dogs shed a lot.  What can you do to help get the hair loss under control?  Grooming is the key.  Keeping in mind that the hair is going to fall out either way and it is best to remove it yourself and throw it in the trash, then to let the hair fall out naturally all over your house.  The more hair YOU remove the less you will see it all over your house.  Brushing your dog once a day will greatly reduce the unwanted hair all over your clothes, carpet and furniture, especially during shedding season.  There are products that can help you remove all the dead hair in a few grooming sessions, leaving less hair to fall out inside your house.  During the shedding season, if you do not remove the shedding winter coat, you will most likely see it falling all out all over your house for about a period of a month or so. . . There are physical problems that can cause large, abnormal amounts of shedding such as ringworm, skin infections, stress, mange and cancer.  It is not normal for your dogs coat to thin as the dog gets older.  If your dog's hair loss is abnormal you will see bald spots.  If you see bald spots or you think your dog is shedding abnormally, take your dog to the vet.