Questions that should be looked into are:. How long has this been happening?. Is she going frequently?. Does she squat and not go at all at times?. Is her urine a different color then normal or a different smell?. This may be a sign of a urinary tract infection. Get her to a vet ASAP to rule out this. Medicines and possibly a change in diet for this could put her right back on track.. Other things to look at are:. Have things in your house changed since this behavior started? Like a new addition to the family, ex: baby, new bioyfriend or girl friend?. Anybody move from the house?. Add another animal to the house?. Is there any changes in the human behavior in the household, ex: more running around the house, arguments, etc?. Has new carpeting been put down?. New furniture been bought?. Changed litter brands?. Sometimes changes in the house upset an animal. . Neutralize all soiled areas with a urine cleaner throughly, and you may want to use Feliway on that area after it is totally cleaned.. The cat may have to be confined for a while in a crate to re-train her if it is environmental. . We also use a calming solution in the cat's drinking water and/or wet food to help keep them on an even keel. Flower essences for calming an animal. This stuff can be purchased at a pet store, internet or herbal place. We have done that when the medical end was ruled out first. We have been very successful with this. Sometimes a vet can perscribe a calming drug, but I wouldn't use this as a first option. We have never gone that route.. . Just an added note, the cat is not trying to get you mad, cats try to be clean by nature, but she is definitely telling you that something is wrong, either physically with her or something in the house is not right. Unfortunately, the cat whisperer is not around to give us the answer so we have to start at the beginning and look at all the possiblilities.. Take her to the vet to rule out any potential dangers she may have physically first. This possibly could be a serious condition.. . As for the licking problem, she may have an allergic reaction to either a flea bite or the food she is eating. . One flea bite can cause havoc on some cats and they will pick at their fur until they are scabby and sometimes bald. The best solution for this is Advantage for cats. It comes in it's own applicator and applies directly between the shoulder blades. We find it works best and kills any fleas really fast.. If it's a food allergy, you may have to play with different foods for this but give it at least a month on one food before going to the next. You need the time to see if it is getting better or not. Of course if it is getting worst, then maybe this is not the right food to be on. Your vet will be able to tell you if it may be flea bites she is reacting to. He might find fleas on her or flea dirt. If not fleas, he may be able to tell you what foods to try and clear the condition up. Sometimes they recommend a steriod to help the skin condition along for a short period of time.. My advice is to get her to a vet to get both problems looked at as soon as possible.