Your body produces anti-bodies. Penicillin works against bacteria, not viruses. . . Laboratory tests show Sambucol® neutralises Common and Avian Flu Virus H5N1 . Added: (Thu Jan 19 2006) . . New research, carried out by Retroscreen Virology has indicated that . Sambucol®, a patented formula, may fight the virulent Avian Flu virus. Results have been presented yesterday, Wednesday, in a press conference held in the Royal Society of Medicine, London. Speakers included Prof. Hannoun, Emeritus Professor at the Pasteur Institute and Dr. Mumcuoglu, developer of Sambucol®. . . Laboratory trials held in a leading research institute, Retroscreen Virology . Ltd, associated with the University of London found Sambucol® to be at least . 99% effective against the Avian Flu virus H5N1. Sambucol® was effective at . significantly neutralising the infectivity of the virus in cell cultures. These . results will also be presented during the International Conference on Bird Flu: . “The First Pandemic of the 21st Century. A Central Role for Antivirals”, to be . held at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital on January 19th-20th 2006. . . Dr. Madeleine Mumcuoglu, is looking into further investigations into the . activity of Sambucol® against Avian Flu on a wider scale. . . In an earlier study (1995) Sambucol® was found to be effective against a wide range of influenza strains. Laboratory studies conducted at the Hebrew . University – Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem demonstrated the activity . of Sambucol® against human, swine, and avian influenza strains. . Sambucol®'s efficacy was also demonstrated in two double blind, placebo . controlled clinical studies. Sambucol® was shown to cut the duration and . severity of the common flu by up to half. . . ENDS . . Notes to editors; . Sambucol® is based on an active substance isolated from the black elderberry. . Manufactured by Razei Bar Industries Israel, Sambucol® is available in 17 . countries and in the UK is sold in Tesco, leading chemists, independent health . food stores and wholesalers from £8.49. . . For photography please visit the following site and enter the log in details: . FTP address: ftp://pixelit.co.il . user name: ftp_razeibar . password: 63+84675 . . . For further press information please contact: Francesca Gaffey/Cheryl Davies, . Communique Public Relations, Waterside, No2 Canal Street, Manchester, M1 . 3HE. Tel: 0161 242 5120/0161 242 5108 Fax: 0161 228 7391 E-mail: . francesca.gaffey@communiquepr.co.uk cheryl.davies@communiquepr.co.uk . . For research information please visit: Retroscreen Virology Ltd. at: . http://www.retroscreen.com/ . . For product information please visit: . Razei Bar Industries (1996) Ltd. At: www.sambucol.com