well started with slavery.  cotton is a cash crop you can store and move around and thereby generate wealth.  and wealth is the kind of money that produces more money.  and you also needed lawyers, stockbrokers, banks, and of course politicians and assemble them all in nice little cities where they can get together and make business deals with all that slave wealth.. . then came the gold rush.  america steals a bunch of land from mexico, and people start digging for gold.  this creates a huge explosion in the money supply and the nations wealth.  this wealth also financed american industrialization as well as the consumption of those goods.  this is when the govenrment brings in all kinds of tariffs to encourage industrialization. . moving into the 20th century, america is already a very wealthy and powerful country and begins to really experiment in imperialism, with a dramatic foray against spain, securing not only territories in the americas, but the asian philippine islands as well.  but what really changes things is two world wars.  the first was not only a huge boom for american exports, but america's european competitors became debtor nations, buying american goods for their war, and then having to borrow the money back.  world war 2 doesn't improve things for europe.  another slugfest with america getting rich selling to both sides.  and while germany, europe, russia and england were ruined, america suffered very little, and profited immensely.  out of world war 2 america emerges the only superpower and in 1946 it secures it's economic hegemony with the bretton woods agreement, backing the US dollar wtih gold and making it the effective reserve currency for the rest of the world.  this must have been immensely profitable because only 25 years later, vietnam has cost so much money that nixon had to stop redeeming dollars in gold and launch the modern era of american imperialism, dollar hegemony and petrodollar recycling.. . when nations lost confidence in the us dollar, confidence was restored by pegging the us dollar to oil.  america had long controlled the oil trade as well as having most of the gold, and oil had always been priced in dollars.. . as long as the petroleum exporting nations accept dollars in exchange for oil, all nations will exchange dollars for manufactured goods.  oil is as good as money.  if dollars buy oil then they're good.. . course wtih the dollar falling against the cost of gold, the arabs wised up and realized they needed more dollars for a barrel of oil if they were going to break even on this deal.  america made it easy.  america allows the arab princes to have their OPEC oil cartel and raise prices as high as they want.  on two conditions.  they priced the oil in us dollars, and they use their huge oil revenues to bail out the US treasury in time of need.  a good deal for both sides.  the US gets all this free money in the form of gigantic loans from the saudi peninsula, especially despots who would rather keep that money as far away from their own people as possible.  and the US does very will with this cheap credit.  arabs don't ask questions about SEC regulations.  consumers get cheap credit for extravagent spending.  as well as the government which carries around this monstrous debt with ease because the credit is cheaper than living within your means and because the debt is in your own currency, there's little currency risk of default.. . in effect america is taxing the entire world, especially since it has ceased publishing the m3 money supply.  this figure is the only method we have of tracking how much money the US mint produces on a daily basis.  a valuable tool to investors who have to guage a dollar's value by measuring the supply of dollars, to the supply of goods.  but concealing it is only symptomatic of an economy that has concealed stock market accounting fraud for decades now.  the stock market is still painfully overvalued despite years of slow 