Like most of phenomena occurring in the earth's interior, the movements and dynamics of magma are poorly understood. However, it is known that an eruption may follow movement of magma upwards into the solid layer (the earth's crust) beneath a volcano and occupying a magma chamber. Eventually, magma in the chamber is forced upwards and flows out across the planet's surface as lava, or the rising magma can heat water in the surrounding landform and change the water into steam, creating great pressure. As a result, explosive eruptions can occur. Such explosive eruptions can produce a wide range of volcanic debris, such as volcanic ash (also known as tephra), volcanic bombs, which can be large enough to kill people and animals. Eruptions can vary from effusive to extremely explosive.. . Many volcanoes are formed at destructive plate margins: where oceanic crust is forced below the continental crust because oceanic crust is denser than continental crust - this process is called subduction. As the oceanic crust is subducted, it descends into the mantle where temperatures are generally higher than near the surface of the planet. Increases in temperature and pressure with depth cause water trapped in the descending oceanic crust to escape from minerals in the crust. This process is called dehydration, commonly occurs at depths of about 100 km (62 miles) and can also be a source of very deep earthquakes due to an associated change in volume of the dehydrating rock mass (such as the 2001 Nisqually Earthquake in Washington State, USA). The water that escapes from the dehydrating oceanic crust migrates into the surrounding mantle which has a different composition than the descending crust. At ambient conditions in the mantle at 100km depth, water will induce partial melting of the mantle. This melt is less dense than the surrounding mantle and will consequently rise though the mantle to the overlying crust. As the magma (melt) rises through the crust it may melt and assimilate some of the surrounding crust, it may cool and begin to grow crystals, and it may exsolve gas.. . The relative importance of these processes depends on the composition, amount and ascent rate of the magma. If the magma reaches the surface, it will generate a volcanic eruption. The style of the eruption will depend on the composition and gas content of the magma. The type of volcano will depend on the type of magma that usually erupts at that location over a long period of time, and the viscosity of the magma. High concentrations of silica are associated with high viscosity (thicker, goopier magma) and will form steep sided volcanoes. Volcanic arcs forming near subduction zones, on the edges of continental plates, usually form high-silica melt which create steep sided stratovolcanoes due to the high viscosity of the melt. For example, Mount St. Helens is found inland from the margin between the oceanic Juan de Fuca Plate and the continental North American Plate. Other examples of chains of stratovolcanoes include the Andes, the Cascade range, and the Aleutian Islands.. Shiprock, New Mexico a volcanic neck in the distance, with radiating dike on its south side. Photo credit: USGS Digital Data Series. Enlarge. Shiprock, New Mexico a volcanic neck in the distance, with radiating dike on its south side. Photo credit: USGS Digital Data Series. . A volcano is often stereotyped as a mountain sending forth from its summit great clouds of smoke with flames. The truth is that a volcano seldom emits either smoke or flame, although various combinations of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, and sulfur do sometimes ignite. What is mistaken for smoke consists of vast volumes of fine dust (called volcanic ash), mingled with steam and other vapors, chiefly sulfurous. Most of what appears to be flames is the glare from the erupting materials, glowing because of their high temperature; this glare reflects off the clouds of dust and steam, resembling fire.. . Perhaps the most conspic