The Catholic Church sees its mission to be teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and it is faced with a world in which there is a certain amount of apathy and a great deal of ignorance about its message, even among Catholics.  Since the DaVinci Code is a best-seller which implies things about Jesus which the Church believes are not true, clearly the Church does not like the book.  It believes the book is contributing further to the ignorance and this explains the defensiveness, not any feeling that the "charges" are correct.  Although I have heard about boycotts in some European countries (Italy?) I actually haven't heard of the Catholic Church in the United States calling for the movie to be boycotted, as I did for instance when The Last Temptation of Christ was made into a movie.  It may be that I am less aware of Church doings now than in the past, but I did hear in the news that at least Opus Dei didn't call for a boycott.  I do have a little experience with Opus Dei, because in college I had a friend who tried to recruit me into it.  While I understand that it is true that a small percentage of the members (those who are more deeply involved in it) use the cilice, this is certainly not an instrument of self-mutilation (self-mutilation is a sin in the Catholic Church).  It is merely an item that is worn to cause a certain amount of physical discomfort, not even pain.  If you condemn women who wear uncomfortable clothes like high heels or tight blue jeans so that they look more attractive, fine, condemn Opus Dei members who wear something uncomfortable as a spiritual exercise.. As for the "facts" presented in the DaVinci Code, they are not substantiated by history, at least according to most reputable historians.  The documents that are discussed in the book relating to the Priory of Sion were shown to be a hoax.  As history, the Gnostic gospels are less credible than the canonical gospels.  The Gnostic gospels found in Nag Hammadi are documents from the 4th century C.E. whereas the canonical gospels are generally considered to date from 68 to 110 C.E.. The bottom line is the DaVinci Code is an entertaining piece of fiction, and the Catholic Church's discomfort with it is easily explained because they think it will lead to more ignorance.  But it's only a small blip on their 2000 year radar.  It makes just as much sense to say that the fact that so many people jump on this book's bandwagon and uncritically accept its fictional premise as the truth shows how insecure they are in their own ideas.  How beautiful it would be if everyone could indeed think for themselves.