Vulcanised rubber. Uncured natural rubber will begin to deteriorate within a few days, gradually breaking down into a wet crumbly mess. The process of perishing partly consists of proteins being broken down much as milk proteins do, and also of the large rubber molecules breaking up as they oxidize in the air due to oxygen molecules attacking the double bonds.. . Rubber which has been inadequately vulcanized also may perish, but more slowly. The process of perishing is encouraged by long exposure to sunlight.. . Properties. With vulcanized rubber, engineers had a material which could be shaped and formed to precise shapes and dimensions, and which would accept moderate to large deformations under load and recover quickly to its original dimensions once the load was removed. These, combined with good durability and lack of stickiness, are the critical requirements for an effective sealing material.. . structure. Along the rubber molecule, there are a number of sites which are attractive to sulfur atoms. These are called cure sites. During vulcanization the 8-membered ring of sulfur breaks down in smaller parts with varying numbers of sulfur atoms. These parts are quite reactive. At each cure site on the rubber molecule, one or more sulfur atoms can attach itself, and from there, a sulfur chain can grow, until it eventually reaches a cure site on another rubber molecule. These sulfur bridges are typically between 2 and 10 atoms long. Contrast this with typical polymer molecules in which the carbon backbone is many thousands of atomic units in length. The number of sulfur atoms in a sulfur crosslink has a strong influence on the physical properties of the final rubber article. Short sulfur crosslinks, so with one or two sulfur atoms in the crosslink give the rubber a very good heat resistance. Crosslinks with higher number of sulfur atoms, up to 6 or 7 give the rubber very good dynamic properties, but with lesser heat resistance. Dynamic properties are important for flexing movements of the rubber article, like for instance the movement of a side-wall of a running tire. Without good flexing properties these movements will rapidly lead to formation of cracks and ultimately to failure of the rubber article