How can you say freedom is now history? What are we all doing on yahoo answers. Expressing our opinions, and they don't have to be the same as anyone else. That is freedom. You asking this question, and telling how you feel is part of our freedom. Look around, freedom is everywhere. You choose your life style, you choose the car you drive, you choose what to eat, when to leave your house, you choose what you want to beleave. You can even choose your own religion. You can choose what to watch on TV, you can even choose what to wear each day. . Yes with these freedoms there are some rules that you have to abid by, but that is life. I don't understand people who think that we have no freedom just because at this time in our life things  might not be going as good as we want. . Take Iraq for instance, women have to dress a certian way, you have to beleave what thier leader does. when Saddom was still in control Iraqi people would have never expressed what they think about the government on national televison. They had to obey his orders or get killed.  You have to be part of a certian religion. you have to do things and belive in things that the leader of some of these country do. . So how can you sit there and say our freedoms are history, they are not. Just because you don't get your own way all the time means nothing, that is life. You could be living in a lot worse conditions.. And as far as your flag goes, Sorry you have one that is made in china, that is not the point. The flag is a symbol, what matters is what that flag stands for.  I think we have one to many disrespetable people in this country. Some can't even stop and salute the flag during the National Anthem. . They are even taking the Pledge of Alligence out of school. we need to show are future children some respect about our country. My grandpa's were military, my Great Aunt was a Major, My father served in vietnam, my brother was a marine, and my husband is in the army fighting for your safety so you can sleep at night, I have a lot of respect for our military and for our Flag. If you are still in the military then I think you need to get out. If you have no respect for our country and what the USA stands for. Maybe you should move to mexica and trade you spot for one of thier's. I mean they are literly risking there lives crossing through the hot desert so that they can be apart of this Wonderful Nation.