"Poor nutrition and allergies are two of the most common causes of skin and coat problems and can lead to ailments such as dry, flaky or odorous skin, dull brittle coats, excessive shedding and sores from frequent scratching and biting.". . CJ Puotinen tells us, "Most skin conditions respond well to a complete change in diet....... Supplements are important because most pets with allergies have impaired digestion and need help assimilating nutrients from food......  Antioxidants are an allergic pet's allies.". .  . . It's just like this..... Do you really believe that by feeding your pet chemical preservatives like BHA & BHT, and Ethoxyquin ( all proven to be either carcinogenic or to cause liver & kidney damage) your pet is going to have healthy cells?. . The food we eat and the food our pets eat is what eventually becomes our cells and our tissue. Feed the cells a diet of chemical toxins and the wrong balance of minerals, and guess what's going to happen?. . What would happen to your child if you fed him or her a consistent diet of toxic chemicals, chocolate cake and ice cream, and soda pop?. . Your pet is no different!. . The skin is the largest organ in the body. Overload the lymph system and the liver with garbage and you're going to have a skin or another organ with problems. We can't put it any simpler.. .  . . Go take a look at the label on what you're feeding your pet right now. Look for two things:. . A. The presence of chemical preservatives. . B. An over abundance of carbohydrates (corn, wheat, rice, etc) to meat protein sources.. . To have a food that feeds the cells the proper nutrition for dogs and cats, you should have a food that has at least 3 quality MEAT protein sources to every 2 carbohydrates.. . Get an over abundance of carbohydrates to proteins and your pet (dog or cat) is not getting the right balance of minerals and amino acids that they need to sustain optimum levels of health.. . Improper Nutrition + Chemical Preservatives + Impure Water. . EQUALS. . Poor Health