Nature of God - Discovering His Presence. What's the nature of God? Here's my story… . . It's Friday morning and the sun is up. While others are rushing to their respective workplaces, I decide to go to a nearby park to unwind a little since my own job doesn't starts until 10:00 P.M. (the graveyard shift in a call center). . . As I sit, surrounded by green grass, shaded by the leaves of the trees, and look up at the wide blue sky, my heart smiles and I feel the joy of sensing the presence of an awesome God. Yes, an awesome God. I consider God awesome when I ponder the way He created all things visible and invisible, and especially the way He made us -- humans. God created us in His own image and likeness (Genesis 1:26) and we are fearfully and wonderfully made (Psalm 139:14). . . Nature of God - Praising His Name. In nature, I sense the nature of God! With the chirping of birds, I am urged to sing songs of praise and worship for the Lord. As I worship God, He touches my heart and reveals Himself to me in a very special way - that is, in nature, our environment. Besides this pleasant park, that includes the forests and beaches, the sun that rises and sets everyday, the shining moon and twinkling stars at night, the rain -- and a lot more. I realize now why I feel a different kind of intensity inside every time I gaze on those things. . . Furthermore, I am also reminded of God's goodness and faithfulness in my life. "God is good, all the time. He puts a song of praise in this heart of mine. God is good all the time!" Ever heard of that song? . . Nature of God - Understanding His Love. This is the very nature of God. He is so good that He cares for us and loves us unconditionally. How? What do you think? "For God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that whosoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life" (John 3:16). This is one of the most familiar Bible verses known to man, but do we really understand what it implies in our own life? Imagine if you yourself had only one son, a son you cared for and loved so much. Would you be willing to sacrifice your son's life in order to save someone? Could you afford to risk his life for the sake of others? God could; that is why we have Jesus Christ. The book of John, chapter 14, verse 6, says that Jesus is the way, the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Him. . . In order for us to have an eternal life, all we have to do is receive Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, repent, and ask for forgiveness. It's our choice. It's the nature of God!