I'll give a quick answer, if you like: . . Politeness = weakness?. . I think the "me generation" has come to view, conveniently, that politeness and social graces are a sign of weakness, rather than strength.   Perhaps, it never crosses their mind that the origin for this convenient opinion is that it allows them to not make the effort.. . That generation and those following, actually have little personal strength, in my mind.  They can feign intimidation or insult readily enough, try to make you seem unimportant to them so that they can seem self-sufficient and invulnerable.  But that in itself suggests that they have not the real strength that would prove able to weather such risk of rejection.  . . I was taught and always independently believed that politeness and social graces were the sign of strength.  If I wanted to flatten someone's ego or someone's face, I always felt I could do that easily enough, but that it took some strength, resolve, and commitment to give the other gal or guy at least an even break.. . That's why I'm a bit surprised by all the focus on image and look these days.  Even on the gang themes in "designer" clothes, it's all about image.  . . All this to me suggests that the "me generation" with its intention to act aloof and self-sufficient, is actually neither tough, self-sufficient, or aloof.   Instead, they always look to baby themselves, protect themselves, instead of take the risk that comes of self-assurance and kindness, the willingness to be good to others UNTIL they have given you good reason to treat them otherwise.. . I'll admit also, however, that most of this code of honor was enforced by men.  With men becoming less willing to live up to their responsibilities, and women and society less willing to allow us legally to keep the social mores in-line and enforced, the end result has been this fiasco where children rule while pretending to be adult.   The media, schools, and legal system seem to be more and more willing to allow this childspeak and immature philosophy of "winning at all costs" (if it costs enough you've lost, you have to define costs and winning)  and look tough but don't act confidently self-assured (as then politeness is no big risk or big deal).. . Lastly, the youth for a long time have believed that all that matters is emotion or intention.   Yet, they seem to picture this always on the receiving end and fail to realize that most worthwhile action is the result of thought, emotion, and will -- the will necessary to take the risk.   Any moral code that does not understand the value of politeness as a glue which allows for compassion and increased communication, thus a safer more involved community, is simply bankrupt .. . If you can't see and feel beyond yourself, you'll never see the value of most actions.   Sadly enough that will also mean you won't see or feel the most rewarding actions returning your risk compounded to you.  Perhaps the "me generation" needs to remember that you can search within all you want, but if you never are inspired to look outward again, you'll achieve the obvious result--you'll simply be stuck in the womb forever.