Cannabis has a broad spectrum of possible cognitive, behavioral, and physiological effects, the occurrence of which vary from user to user. Some of these are the intended effect desired by users, some may be considered desirable depending on the situation, and others are generally considered undesirable. Users of cannabis report that these kinds of effects are more often produced by the sativa species of Cannabis.. . Cannabis also has effects that are predominantly physical or sensory, widely believed to be more common with the indica species.. . Cognitive effects. . Varying amounts of paranoia and anxiety in some users . Loss of coordination and distorted sense of time . Impairment of short-term memory in some users . Auditory or visual hallucinations at high doses in some users . Induced sense of novelty . Increased awareness of sensation, including visual stimulation, music, taste, and sexual pleasure . Increased mental activity, like metacognition and introspective or meditative states of mind . Relaxation or stress reduction . Mild entheogenesis (e.g. per Rastafarian users, more "Jah-Vibrations") . . Behavioral effects. . Varying degrees of euphoria and feelings of well-being, ranging from feelings of general well-being to lengthy pointless laughter . Paramnesia, repetitiveness and ambiguation . Initial wakefulness followed by drowsiness and lassitude ("burnt out") . Gain or loss of some inhibitions . . Physiological effects. . Anti-emetic properties (in moderate doses) . Enhancement of many other drug effects (including those of alcohol, MDMA (Ecstasy), tobacco, heroin, cocaine) . Lowered intraocular pressure, beneficial to glaucoma patients and sufferers of headaches, cramps, and eye pain. . Dilation of blood vessels (vasodilation), resulting in: . Increased blood flow and heart rate (tachycardia) . Reddening or drying of eyes . Lower blood pressure while standing. Higher blood pressure while sitting (note that this can lead to instances of orthostatic hypotension, also known as head rush). . Increased appetite (often referred to as "the munchies"), an effect of stimulation of the endocannabinoid system, which affects body weight, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Some reports also claim that the drug can function as an appetite suppressant, and laborers in some parts of Africa, the Caribbean and other parts of the world where hunger is a daily reality for many people are known to use the drug to alleviate hunger. . Mild, temporary dry mouth (sometimes referred to as cottonmouth, pasties, or the drys (NZ)) . Dilation of alveoli (air sacs) in lungs, resulting in deeper respiration and increased coughing . Induces drowsiness (beneficial to sufferers of insomnia and sleep deprivation).