Vertigo is a sense of dizziness and disorientation, and it often arises due . to problems with the vestibular system.  Your vestibular organs are . contained in two structures called the labyrinths, which are often referred . to as the "inner ear."  There is one labyrinth on each side of your head, . located near your cochlea (the primary sensory organ for hearing).. . The labyrinth is composed of two principal organs: the semicircular canals, . and the otoliths.  Each semicircular canal consists of three "loops" . organized at right angles to each other.  If you imagine an X-Y-Z set of . axes, one loop lies in the XY plane, one in the XZ plane, and one in the YZ . plane.  The canals are, indeed, filled with fluid.  A specialized expansion . at the base of each canal contains neurons with little hairs (or cilia) . sticking into a membrane.  When the head moves in an appropriate fashion, . the fluid in the canals move accordingly.  This fluid movement causes the . membrane to bulge in the direction of head turning, which bends the cilia of . the hair cells.  When the cilia bend, ion channels in the neurons open or . close, which sends an electrical signal to other neurons.  So, the . semicircular canals manage to translate head movement into fluid movement . into electrical (ion) movement.  The semicircular canals are most sensitive . to head rotations, like looking to your side.. . The other labyrinth organ is called the otoliths, and their structure is . slightly different.  The otolithic organs are located in the same part of . the body, and also contain hair cells with their cilia embedded in a . membrane.  Instead of containing fluid, though, the otoliths contain a rocky . sheet of calcium carbonate crystals (that's where the otolith gets its name: . oto + lith = ear rock!).  When the head tilts or is subject to acceleration/. deceleration (like in a car or an airplane), the rock moves, and the hair . cell cilia are bent.  Again, this sends an electrical signal to other . neurons. . . By letting your brain know how your head is moving, the labyrinths help you . maintain a sense of orientation.  They also keep your gaze fixed as your . head moves, so that your eyes can maintain a continuous picture of the world . around you.  So, when they're not working properly, patients experience . disorientation, and may also have inappropriate eye movements.. . Vertigo is thought to be caused by a disruption of the various components . that make up the vestibular system.  It is known that certain antibiotics . can disrupt hair cell cilia, causing vertigo and hearing problems (because . hair cells in your cochlea are similar to hair cells in your labyrinth).  . Alterations in the fluid composition or pressure could produce vertigo, as . well.  Another idea is that particles of the otolith could become . mislocalized, resulting in inappropriate stimulation of hair cells