First of all, I am very sorry that you think that Mormons discriminated against you.  Although it is quite possible that some individuals who are members of our church are racist, the church as a whole has made it very clear that our church is for everyone.  In fact, the president of our church gave an address on that very topic in the most recent General Conference in April.  I beg you to look beyond this experience and realize that, just like in all churches, people in our church are not perfect and sometimes don't perfectly live the teachings of the church.  There are actually many native American members of our church, and native Americans were some of the first people that missionaries from our church preached to years ago shortly after the organization of the church.. . In fact, of all ethnic backgrounds, Mormons feel a special tie to people of native American descent because we know that native Americans are descendents of the people that the Book of Mormon is talking about.  There are portions of the Book of Mormon that are addressed specifically to that people, and there are prophecies that this group of people will "blossom like a rose".. . As far as the second part of your question, I assume you are referring to the event known as the Mountain Meadows Massacre.  I have studied this event a little, although I don't claim to be an expert on Mormon history by any means. There were probably many factors that went into this event, but you should know that the killing that took place was not sanctioned by the leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  In fact, Brigham Young, president of the Church, sent a messenger to try to stop it from happening when he heard about the people's plans, but it was just too late.. . I hope I have addressed your concern about Mormons not being inclusive of other races.  It is true that many times, Mormons can give the impression of not being inclusive of people of other faiths, as well.  This is often just due to the fact that Mormons are very busy.  Our church encourages us to have a weekly family night, and the church often organizes other activities for youth on weeknights as well.  When kids have those activities plus homework to do and church on Sunday, they often don't have time for their friends.  It's not intended to be exclusive, however.