I know the legend that some one said that "Even God will not sink the Titanic". Maybe WTC towers were build to survive the atack from air, maybe even some one believed that even such plane will not make towers to calapse... , but is this part realy important? What if some one decide to SACRYFICE PEOPLE working there to use their deaths to start war and blaming only terrorists for atack ( maybe the plan was involving only levels of building where plane crashed - less evil choice). Why not? Sacryfice million to crush the potential enemy of whole country - terrorists and their source - Muslims. Actually I believe that even terrorists wanted to draw Americans in their lands to make them invaders in eyes of world and maybe even God (you just dont know how I am angry for that if its true - such lie against God, but I will not juge, God knows what to do, I just know). Hitler used Germans hatred against Jews to control them. Why not use hatred against terrorists to control Americans or even whole world and achieve war leading to absolute extinction of one side or leading nowhere, keeping constant fight? War can be profitable at least for millitary department. Maybe U.S. governments find solution in war for unemployment problem and costfull maintance of weaponary they are so much proud of? Was it realy going only about oil and vengence? And of corse profit for terrorists in shape of coerced invaders rising hatred among Muslims and rising amount of warriors in terrorists nukmber. Another investigation? I think it will give nothing. If something was hidden, it was propably hidden in care worht perfectionists ( only in film a hero reveals secrets). If any secret exist. I believe Beast sits on both sides and is laughing from your hatred. Muslims have terrorists wanting to kill for few reasons (some even realy radiculus like entering Heaven by suicide in murderous atack mostly on innocents) and U.S. have government and citizens wanting to kill for vengence (blind vengence mostly) or even from pure hatred (some kind of racism or phobia). You cant live like neighbourhood respecting each other, you cant live among each other... if you cant stop hatred starting from yourself then you will die, because even winner will be so much beaten up that his chances to survive will be equal to human body endurance - piece of sand so easy to blow off from planet surface. Some people believe that humanity can survive everything. I dont think so. You die from lack of water, food, sun, oxygen, from radiation, high or low temperature... You just forget how beautiful miracle is the planet you have...Evil wants to kill blindly, good wants justice in clear form, without mistakes in juges. Maybe some crazy guy or organization believe that Armageddon must come in this shape and is making hidden atempts to make Muslims and Americans to wipe each other (hidden somewhere safe from war). Maybe Hitler died but I dont believe that such evil like Nazi's are gone away. Maybe its not them. Maybe its Satanist work. Make world burn in fire and then take in possession. Maybe its some one out of suspicion.  All I have written are my suspicion and theories. I know one certain thing: You are vulnerabily to control of hatred, so better realize where its leading you all and your children. Now you are chosing war not a justice.