A couple of questions-. Does the stick shift knob have a diagram on it? (lines and #'s) Hope so!!. Does the car have a tachometer? (guage that shows rpms of engine). If no tach, do you like music? (useful for listening to the pitch of the engine). Is there a parking lot where you can practice?. . Step 1) Start the car- Press both the clutch and brake (clutch with L foot, brake with R). Keep both pressed while you turn the key.. . Step 2) Get going- Once the engine is running, make sure the stick shifter is in the "1" position (this means you are in 1st gear). Let off the brake, and begin to release the clutch SLOWLY!! The engine will engage (meaning that the engine will start to turn the tires, making the car move).. . Step 3a) Watch-- Watch the tachometer- when the rpm's get to about 3000, (and this takes practice!) press the clutch, move the shifter to "2", and let the clutch out. THIS TAKES PRACTICE!! Eventually you will be able to do this very quickly. I'd recommend that you listen to the pitch of the engine- learn the sound it makes at 3000 rpm. Then you won't have to watch the tachometer all the time, you can just listen.. . Step 3b) Listen-- When the pitch of the engine gets high, like it's being reved (which it is), shift up-- (and this takes practice!) press the clutch, move the shifter to "2", and let the clutch out.. . Step 4) Continue to watch the tachometer (look at it occasionally- watching the road is always more important!) If you want to continue going faster, repeat Step3 (a or b) but shifting to "3", etc.. . Step 5) Stopping and slowing down- Using both feet (as assigned above), press both the brake and clutch. When your desired speed is reached, put the shifter in the appropriate position. Usually, "1" is used if you are under about 3 mph, 2 for anything under 15mph, 3 for 15- 25 mph, etc.. . Step 6) Practice, practice, practice!!!. . I'd recommend that you listen to the pitch of the engine- learn the sound it makes at 3000 rpm. Then you won't have to keep checking the tachometer all the time, you can just listen.. . Also, when in doubt about what to do, push in the clutch- it will allow you time to think before ripping out the transmition...