There are many Christian groups with "catholic" in the name but most Americans use "Catholic" in the place of "Roman Catholic".  Roman Catholics are orthodox Christians following the teachings and traditions of the bishop of Rome, the Pope.  Catholicism places more emphasis on God the Father as opposed to the Holy Spirit or Jesus.  Catholics also incorporate many of the teachings and laws created by the early church which aren’t included in canonical scripture.  . . There are hundreds of different Baptist churches so I’m going to have to speak in general terms.  Baptists are protestant Christians who tend to emphasize God the Son, meaning Jesus, as opposed to the Holy Spirit or God the Father.  Their hierarchical structure is somewhat fluid with most Baptist churches belonging to larger associations (Southern Baptist, Northern Baptist, Cavalry Baptist, etc.) and there are hundreds of individual churches.  More emphasis is placed on canonical scripture and the interpretations made by that particular churches founding members.. . Some significant differences between the two churches would include:. . Baptism (Catholics baptize as infants and then confirm as adults, Baptists baptize as adults and have no confirmation). Marital Status of Clergy (Catholic priests don’t marry, Baptist ministers usually do). Importance of Saints (Catholics think the lives of particularly good devout people are important enough to remember in thought and prayer.  Baptists don’t place so much emphasis on these people for fear of elevating them above their rightful place.. . It’s worth it to note that both Baptists and Catholics share a whole lot in common in terms of what they teach (i.e. teachings regarding abortion, pre-marital relations, charity, etc.)  . . Also like I’m sure others will tell you both Baptists and Catholics are both Christian churches.  Anyone telling you differently does so either out of ignorance or to insult those who disagree with their particular sects teachings.. . Good luck with you research!. . Regards, . Armus. . P.S. If your looking for the church that best fits you I would continue learning all that you can from both and others and eventually you will know which is best for you. To decide now before you are sure just means that you are letting either the baptist or the catholic clergy tell you what to think.. . Just my 2 cents