I actually made a yummy boxed cake recipe last night at a show.  The people FLIPPED over it.. .  . Turtle Fudge Skillet Cake . . Recipe:. 1 package (18.25 ounces) devil's food cake mix (plus ingredients to make cake). 1 tablespoon butter or margarine. 4 squares (1 ounce each) semi-sweet chocolate for baking. 1 jar (12.25 ounces) caramel ice cream topping, divided. 1/2 cup pecans, chopped. Vanilla ice cream or thawed, frozen whipped topping (optional). . 1. Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare cake mix according to package directions in Classic Batter Bowl; beat until smooth using Stainless Steel Whisk. Melt butter in Family Skillet over medium heat, tilting Skillet to coat bottom. Gently pour batter over bottom of Skillet, spreading evenly. . 2. Bake, uncovered, 30-35 minutes or until Cake Tester inserted in center comes out clean. Using Oven Mitts, carefully remove to Nonstick Cooling Rack. Loosen edges of cake with Skinny Scraper and carefully invert cake onto heat-proof serving plate. . 3. Chop chocolate using Crinkle Cutter. Combine half of the caramel topping with chocolate in Small Batter Bowl. Microwave, uncovered, on HIGH 30-60 seconds or until melted. Stir until smooth using Skinny Scraper. Carefully spread caramel fudge glaze over cake using Large Spreader. . 4. Chop pecans using Food Chopper; sprinkle evenly over glaze. Drizzle with remaining caramel sauce, if desired. Serve with vanilla ice cream using Ice Cream Dipper or whipped topping using Easy Accent Decorator. Serve using Slice 'N Serve. Yield: 12 servings or 24 sample servings . Nutrients per serving: Calories 440, Total Fat 24 g, Saturated Fat 6 g, Cholesterol 85 mg, Carbohydrate 55 g, Protein 6 g, Sodium 490 mg, Fiber 2 g.  . . the skillet I use is a 12" pan that can start on the stove and go into the oven up to 400 degrees F.. . Chocolate-Peanut Butter Torte.  Ingredients:. Cake . 1  package (9 ounces) devil's food cake mix. 2  tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder. 2  tablespoons mayonnaise. 1  egg. 1/2  cup unsweetened applesauce.  . Glaze . 1/3  cup semi-sweet chocolate morsels. 2  tablespoons heavy whipping cream. 2  tablespoons caramel ice cream topping. 2  tablespoons creamy peanut butter, divided. Spanish peanuts (optional). . .  Directions:. 1.Preheat oven to 350°F. For cake, lightly spray Small Bar Pan with nonstick cooking spray. Cut a piece of Parchment Paper to cover bottom of pan. Line pan with Parchment Paper; lightly spray with cooking spray. In Classic Batter Bowl, whisk cake mix and cocoa powder using Stainless Whisk. Add mayonnaise, egg and applesauce; whisk until well blended. Pour batter into pan. Bake 22-25 minutes or until Cake Tester inserted in center comes out clean. Remove from oven to Stackable Cooling Rack; cool 5 minutes. Remove from pan; cover with clean Kitchen Towel and cool completely. . 2.For glaze, combine chocolate morsels, whipping cream, ice cream topping and 1 tablespoon of the peanut butter in Small Micro-Cooker®. Microwave on HIGH 15-30 seconds or until melted; stir until smooth. Set aside. Place remaining peanut butter in Prep Bowl. Microwave on HIGH 10-20 seconds or until melted and smooth; set aside. . 3.To assemble torte, using Serrated Bread Knife, cut cake in half crosswise to form two equal layers. Carefully place one layer on top of the other and trim to match edges. Place one layer onto serving plate. Spread half of the glaze over bottom layer using Small Spreader, allowing glaze to drip down sides. Top with second cake layer. Repeat with remaining glaze. Drizzle with melted peanut butter and swirl into glaze using Quikut Paring Knife. If desired, sprinkle peanuts around bottom of torte. Slice using Utility Knife dipped in hot water. . Yield: 4 servings . . Nutrients per serving: Calories 560, Total Fat 27 g, Saturated Fat 10 g, Cholesterol 105 mg, Carbohydrate 71 g, Protein 10 g, Sodium 660 mg, Fiber 4 g . . Cook’s Tips: If desired, half of a standard devil’s food cake mix (9 ounces or 1 