To the first respondent.  Alright asswipe...how many hours of prime serving time are there in a day?  How many hours does it take to set up, take down, and clean the bar?  What do you make an hour?  Now divide it all out.  Believe me, bartenders and food servers are not in line to take over for Donald Trump.  Most have a hard time making ends meet.. . I think the question implies excellent service and wonders given good service, why do people tip less than 10%?. . A lot of people in the hospitality industry do the job because it fits a schedule where they can be students or moms or work a second job during the day, work in a restaurant during the night.  Restaurant servers need to "tip out" other employees  - busboys, bartenders - and it is not optional as well as cover those who occasion the restaurant to "dine and dash.". . I have worked a lot of jobs (including landscaping, factory work, dish-washing, and janitorial work) and serving tables is one of the tougher ones...just because you see the person for four minutes does not mean that they are not occupied with your interests nearly the entire time you are in the restaurant - before you showed up and after you leave.  There is a lot of risk in what your nightly income might be.  Sometimes worthwhile, sometimes not.. . For any of you who did not get the memo, here is current customary gratuity etiquette in the U.S.. . If you get awful service, talk to the manager. The manager cannot correct the situation if he doesn't know about it. Skipping the tip will not accomplish anything, and the next poor customer who gets that server will get the same service you did.. . If you are buying the meal and someone offers to get the tip, tell them they can buy next time, and you pay the whole thing. This prevents any uneasiness about them seeing the amount of the bill or worrying that they will be stingy on the tip.. . Restaurants report a percentage (around 12%) of the gross sales for food and beverage to the IRS for their staff. This means that if you have a $200 food bill and $200 wine bill, the restaurant will report 12% of $400 or $48 as income to the server. In other words, the server has to pay tax on it whether you tip it or not. If the restaurants do not report it accurately, the restaurant and the wait staff get audited by the IRS. . . Please don't get hung up on the 12%. It is just a reasonable example. I recommend tipping 10-15% on the alcohol and 15-20% on the food. 10% on the wine is perfectly acceptable. Whether to tip 10 or 15 percent would depend in large part on how helpful the server was in choosing the wine and serving it. . . Food server - 15-20% . Cocktail server - 15-20%. For free drinks in Vegas, tip $1-2 per round. . Bartender - 15-20% or $1 per drink. If at the bar before a meal, settle up with the bartender before you go to your table. . Wine steward - 10% of wine bill. . If a bar has a cover charge, you do not tip on it. . Busboys - Nothing, unless he did something extra special like cleaning up a huge mess. Then give him $1-2. . Maitre d' - Nothing, unless he gets you a special table or the restaurant is full and you had no reservation. Then give $5-10 or more. . Coat check - $1 . Restroom attendant - $1 . Separate checks - If you want separate checks, ask the server to go ahead and add 18% gratuity to each check. . Musician in lounge - $1-5 . Musician that visits table - $2-3 if you make a special request. Optional if he just stops by and plays. . Takeout - If you get good service, in other words, the waiter gets and packages the food, then tip $1-2 or up to 10%. . Drive through - Nothing. . Self-service restaurant or buffet - Nothing unless there is some service. Tip 10% if the server delivers all or part of your meal or keeps your drinks refilled. . When breakfast is included in the price of the hotel room - Estimate the value of the meal by looking at a menu. If there is no breakfast menu, consider the quality of the hotel 