Low lipase in serum should be normal. High lipase - suspicious for pancratitis and many other conditions. . Why get tested?. To diagnose pancreatitis or other pancreatic disease. . When to get tested?. If you have symptoms of a pancreatic disorder, such as severe abdominal pain, fever, loss of appetite, or nausea. . Sample required?. A blood sample drawn from a vein in the arm. . This is a blood test to measure the amount of the enzyme lipase.. . How the test is performed   . . Blood is drawn from a vein on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand. The puncture site is cleaned with antiseptic, and an elastic band is placed around the upper arm to apply pressure and restrict blood flow through the vein. This causes veins below the band to fill with blood.. . A needle is inserted into the vein, and the blood is collected in an air-tight vial or a syringe. During the procedure, the band is removed to restore circulation. Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed, and the puncture site is covered to stop any bleeding.. . For an infant or young child, the area is cleansed with antiseptic and punctured with a sharp needle or a lancet. The blood may be collected in a pipette (small glass tube), on a slide, onto a test strip, or into a small container. Cotton or a bandage may be applied to the puncture site if there is any continued bleeding.. . How to prepare for the test   . . Fast for 8 hours before the test. The health care provider may advise you to stop taking drugs that may affect the test (see special considerations).. . For infants and children:. . The preparation you can provide for this test depends on your child's age and experience. For specific information regarding how you can prepare your child, see the following:. http://www.labtestsonline.or. http://www.symptomat.com. http://www.rdoctor.com. http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus. . . At least three human genetic diseases are caused by mutations in lipase genes. Lipoprotein lipase deficiency is caused by mutations in the gene encoding lipoprotein lipase [1]. Cholesteryl Ester Storage Disease (CESD) and Wolman Disease are both caused by mutations in the gene encoding lysosomal lipase, also referred to as lysosomal acid lipase (LAL or LIPA) or acid cholesteryl ester hydrolase [2].. . . Lipases are ubiquitous throughout living organisms, and genes encoding lipases are even present in certain viruses. While a diverse array of genetically distinct lipase enzymes are found in nature, and represent distinct types of protein folds and catalytic mechanisms, most are built on an alpha/beta hydrolase fold (see image) and employ a chymotrypsin-like hydrolysis mechanism involving a serine nucleophile, an acid residue (usually aspartic acid), and a histidine.