Boy, are you mixed up! I read your other questions, so I don't know if you think well enough or know English well enough to understand this, but here goes! God's nature is love. For love to be love there has to be something or someone to love. The reason that God created both angels and humans is so that He would have someone to love and to love Him in return. Also, if humans love each other as well as love God, the love is multiplied. That is why when Jesus was asked, What is the greatest commandment? He answered, "To love the LORD your God with all your heart and all your mind and all your strentgh. And the 2nd is like unto it, to love your neighbor as yourself.".    Now, here is where problems came in. The nature of love is that it can't be commanded. If God created us so that we had to love Him - that we had no choice - then, that wouldn't be love. Love has to be a choice. That is one of the reasons why God gave us free choice, so that we could choose to love Him..    God did not create Satan. Satan's original name was Lucifer,. which means, the light bringer (or bearer). Lucifer was the smartest and the most powerful angel that God created. But Lucifer and the other angels were also given freewill so that they could choose to love God. Lucifer, became full of pride at being the smartest and the most powerful angel and chose to not love God and to not obey God. He wanted to be God himself! Satan convinced 1/3rd of the angels to follow him instead of God and for this they were kicked out of Heaven. This is also why that after Jesus's 2nd coming Satan and the angels that followed him will be cast into hell and never let out. .   Now, as you can immagine, Satan is very angry about this. He knows that he is going to hell and also that God doesn't  want any human to go to hell. Satan wants to cause as many humans to go to hell as possible. His main weapon is lies. At the time that Adam and Eve were in the Garden of Eden they had only one commandment they had to obey. Only one, can you immagine it.. God told them to "not eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil", and if they did, that they would die. Satan lied to Eve and said that God lied to her. That if she ate of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge she would be like God and be able to tell good from evil and that she wouldn't die. Satan said God lied about her dying if she ate that fruit (it wasn't an apple!) because God didn't love her and Adam and have their best interest at heart. Too bad that Adam believed Eve instead of God and here we are. Adam and Eve got kicked out of the Garden of Eden, they did die, and all of us will die too, at least our bodies will..    Satan is still telling the same lies today. He says that God doesn't love us and that the rules he gave us in the Bible are not in our best interest. An earlier person who answered your question said that freewill meant that we could do what we want and accept the consequences. Well, God said the consequenses of sin are pain in this life, death, and everlasting suffering in hell. Since those are the consequenses of sin, I will choose to the best of my ability, not to do what I want if it is a sin but what God wants and tells us in the Bible. I think to choose anything else is stupid! Remember, Satan is a lier and God really does love us. I hope this may help anyone who takes the time to read this, God bless you.