Uh huh, so we are assuming that she was left out of the bible and assuming that she existed.  Post any reference that alludes to Adam having another wife before Eve.  Just narrow it down to Jewish/Muslin/Christian documents, lets not go outside of those 3.. . For those that state there are references from texts of that era that genesis was written in please display a link.   Just saying it was tampered with does nothing, supply me a link.  I dont care if its not in the bible or not if its in the book of enoch by all means supply the link.. . Lilith in the Hebrew Bible. There is only one verse in the Hebrew Bible, Isaiah 34:14, that may be a reference to Lilith. . . "The desert creatures will meet with the wolves,. The hairy goat also will cry to its kind;. Yes, the night monster will settle there . And will find herself a resting place.". . - from New American Bible with a footnote stating the Hebrew for "night monster" is "lilith" . . . The problem with this passage is that this is the only time the word "lilith" is used in the entire Bible, so it is difficult to speculate whether or not this is actually referring to the Sumerian Lilith or just another creature in the context . . A passage in the Songs of the Sage (4Q510-11) of the Dead Sea Scrolls also mentions Liith in a context similar to Isaiah 34.. . . "And I, the Master, proclaim the magesty of his beauty to frighten and ter[rify] all the spirits of the destroying angels and the spirits of hte bastards, the demons, Lilith, the howlers (?) and [the yelpers...] they who strike suddenly to lead astray the spirit of understanding and to appal their heart and their... in the age of domination of wickedness...". - from Geza Vermes' translation, in Martinez's translation "Lilith" is pluralized. . . So they are calling her a demon, yet you are suggesting she was Adams first wife.  Again provide references to the bible or any other religious documentation from the 3 i listed before as proof that she was.  Next time you send me an email you could be more polite.