The stock market crash of 1929 was an indication of serious, underlying problems in the United States economy, but it was not the sole cause of the Great Depression. The Crash merely made the cracks in America's superficial prosperity much more obvious. And, since the causes of the economic crises were complex, the solution to the economic problems facing the United States would be complicated as well. This lecture examines the first few years of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration, the New Deal, and the federal government's attempt to lift America out of the Depression.. . . . Some questions to keep in mind:. . What role did the unequal distribution of wealth play in sustaining the Depression? . What techniques did FDR use to boost his popularity? Was he successful? . Compare Hoover's philosophy of government to FDR's. Were there any salient differences? . Explain the concept of "the broker state." How did FDR go about doing the duties of a modern president? . . . Cracks in the Economic Foundation. After the Great Crash, the American public sought a scapegoat for the economic collapse. Some held President Hoover responsible, others targeted the "three B's"--brokers, bankers, and businessmen. But the cause of the Great Depression could not be attributed to one individual or even a group of people. The roots of the Great Depression were in the very structure of the American economy, namely:. . 1. Unequal distribution of wealth and income. . Despite rising wages overall, income distribution was unequal.  Gaps in income had actually increased since the 1890s. The 1% of the population at the very top of the pyramid had incomes 650% greater than those 11% of Americans at the bottom of the pyramid. The tremendous concentration of wealth in the hands of a few meant that continued economic prosperity was dependent on the high investment and luxury spending of the wealthy. However, both the high spending and high investment of the time, much like today, were susceptible to economic fluctuations; they were much less stable than people's expenses on daily necessities like food, clothing, and shelter. Therefore, when the market crashed and the economy tumbled, both big spending and big investment collapsed, as well.. . . 2. Unequal distribution of corporate power.. From the late 1870s on, there had been an ongoing movement of business consolidations and mergers in the United States. During WWI, many potential commercial competitors merged into huge corporations like General Electric and eliminated competition in major American industries. In 1929, two hundred of the biggest corporations controlled 50% of the nation's corporate wealth. This concentration of corporate wealth meant that if just a few companies went under after the Crash, the whole economy would suffer.. . Some quick definitions: . . Trust - A combination of firms or corporations, that is now illegal, organized for the purpose of reducing competition and controlling prices throughout a business or industry. . . Holding company - A company that controls other companies. During the 1920s, holding companies came to replace trusts. . . 3. Bad banking structure.. In the 1920s, banks were opening at the rate of four to five per day, but without many federal restrictions to determine how much start-up capital a bank needed or how much it could lend. As a result, most of these banks were highly insolvent. Between 1923 and 1929, banks closed at the rate of two a day. Yet, until the stock market crash in 1929, the nation's seemingly inevitable prosperity helped concealed the potentially fatal flaws in the American banking system. . . 4. Foreign balance of payments.. World War I had turned the United States from a debtor nation into a creditor nation. In the aftermath of the war, both the victorious Allies and the defeated Central Powers owed the United States more money than it owed to foreign nations. The Republican 