Let's assume you are talking about B&W film. If you are creating images, developing the film and printing the photos in a darkroom the effort can be difficult to master. If you concentrate on each stage of the process you can display work that viewers will envy.. . First, pick a subject that you enjoy photographing. If you like people create a portrait. If you like scenics work on your landscapes. If you have a manuel camera be careful with your exposure. Over exposing the film blocks the highlights, under exposure blocks the shadows. You want to capture a broad range of detail in the image. You want to show the detail of the cloth or the small object hidden in the shadows. . . Pick the right film speed to do the job. If you are shooting in low light situations use a higher ASA (ISO) film 400+. There is a trade off with this. Faster speed means more grain. Somewhere in the past "grain" became a dirty word. The efforts to reduce grain in film are captured in numerous books. I never let grain bother me too much. I was more concerned with capturing the event on film.. . If you have plenty of light or are shooting with flash or hot lights you can use a slower speed film. The advantages are smoother texture and more detail in the shodow and highlight areas of the image.. . When you develope the film pay attention to temperature and agitation. Set up a consistant method of processing the film so you have predictable results. There are tons of different developers on the market (that is rapidly changing due to digital) to process the film. You might want to explore them and note the differences they make. Use fresh chemistry. Use an acurate thermometer. . . When you print the images (after a careful edit) begin with fresh chemistry. You can stretch the life of the fix but dump the developer and start new each day. When you print I would suggest using a variable contrast paper. This gives you a little more control if you haven't performed any of the above steps. (When you get a little more experienced you can go to graded paper.) I like my prints to snap with contrast. This is were you get to interpret what the image will look like. This is your vision. You choose to print in high contrast or flat grays. (I hate flat prints...drives me nuts!). . This was what I did for decades. I learned the physics of light and the basic use of chemistry but the entire process of photography turned magical as I watched the image appear in the developer tray. I was hooked at 14 years old.. . If you are digital, that is a whole different story.. You still need to watch expose. If you blow out the highlights (the detail in the lightest part of the image) there is very little you can do to fix it. Learn to play with light. Observe the world around you and watch as the light changes during the course of the day. (generally early in the morning and late in the afternoon are best) Page through books and magazines and see what other photographers are doing. Experiment.....photography is a very personal form of communication. What do you want to say to someone looking at the image hanging on the wall. Have you removed any clutter from the image with good cropping (this also means there are more ways than one to crop an image)? Is there a good tonal range in the image (clean whites to black blacks)? . . All of this goes into making good B&W prints. (It also means that if you are using photoshop you can do better that just converting an image from RGB to grayscale!). . Sorry for being so wordy. Good Luck.