Fluid that accumulates in the pleural space because of trauma or disease is called pleural effusion. This condition may result from heart failure, cancer, pulmonary embolism, or inflammation. If blood is in the accumulating fluid, the condition is called "hemothorax"; if pus is present, it is called "empyema"; if air enters the space, it is called "pneumothorax"; and if there is chyle (milky fluid consisting of lymph and fat), it is called "chylothorax." There are two types of pleural effusion, transudative and exudative. . . An imbalance between the venous-arterial pressure and the pressure within the pleural space (oncotic pressure) causes transudative effusions. Transudates contain few protein cells and little solid material content and have a clear, pale yellow color. Cardiac failure and, less commonly, liver and kidney disease cause transudative pleural effusion. . . Exudative effusions are caused by inflammation, infection, and cancer. Exudates have large amounts of protein cells, white blood cells, and immune cells that have migrated into the pleural fluid and deposited in tissues or on tissue surfaces. Exudates also are pale yellow in color but have a cloudy appearance. If pus is present because of infection (empyema), the fluid is yellow, cloudy, and has a foul odor. Pneumonia, tuberculosis, pulmonary embolism (blocked pulmonary artery), cancer, and trauma are common causes of exudative pleural effusion. . Mechanisms of Pleural Fluid Accumulation . An excessive amount of pleural fluid probably results from a combination of fluid draining into the tissues from the blood vessels and the overproduction of fluid by the mesothelial cells. Fluid accumulates in the pleural space by three mechanisms: increased drainage of fluid into the space, increased production of fluid by cells in the space, and decreased drainage of fluid from the space. . . Increased amounts of fluid drain from the circulation when there is hypertension in the venous system (creating pressure imbalance) or when there is too little protein in the blood. Ascites (fluid in the peritoneal space, or abdominal cavity) can drain through small perforations in the diaphragm. A large amount of fluid can drain directly into the pleural space this way. . . Abnormal mesothelial cells (as in asbestosis) can produce large amounts of fluid. White blood cells can accumulate in response to infection and inflammation in the pleural space (empyema). These cells produce fluid that is difficult to drain or that are in such large quantities that normal drainage through the lymphatic system simply cannot keep up. . . Malignant tumor cells can migrate (or metastasize) to the pleural space from essentially any type of tumor in the body. These cells can attach to either the visceral or parietal pleural surfaces or float freely in the pleural space and produce large amounts of fluid. . . When tumor cells block lymphatic drainage, fluid accumulates. If the blockage is located in the central lymphatic drainage system that drains chyle (milky fluid consisting of lymph and fat) to the thoracic duct, fluid rich in chyle accumulates in the pleural space