because we live in a Monarchy  . . A monarchy consists of rule by a king or queen. Sometimes a king is called an "emperor," especially if there is a large empire, such as Great Britton before 1914. There are no large monarchies today. The United Kingdom, which has a queen, is really a republic because after the commonwealth of 1650 the queen has virtually no political power.  . . many historical monachies ended with a Tyranny: . This was a form of monarchial government in which wealthy and ambitious leaders seized power unconstitutionally. These rulers often were patrons of the arts and of the festivals. From the 5th century BCE, this type of rule suggested terror and bad government. The rulers were usually replaced by oligarchies. . . . The west is obsessed with Democracy  . The word "democracy" literally means "rule by the people." In a democracy, the people govern.  however, even in ancient greece, the people, meant only the rich men who were freeholders could vote.. . what you end up with is a Republic    . A literal democracy is impossible in a political system containing more than a few people. All "democracies" are really republics. In a republic, the people elect representatives to make and enforce laws.  . . however, in the capitilists system, the government resembles an Aristocracy  . An aristocracy is rule by the aristocrats. Aristocrats are typically wealthy, educated people. Many monarchies have really been ruled by aristocrats. . . Today, typically, the term "aristocracy" is used negatively to accuse a republic of being dominated by rich people, such as saying, "The United States has become an aristocracy."  when in fact the correct term is an Oligarchy: (rule of the few) . Power was held by a minority of wealthy people. Although citizens could be a part of an oligarchy, they did not have full political rights. Political power was given to a council. The number of participants in an oligarchy could be limited to a specific number by constitution. . . . . when you get right or left wing politics in power, it usally ends up as a Dictatorship  . A dictatorship consists of rule by one person or a group of people. Very few dictators admit they are dictators; they almost always claim to be leaders of democracies. The dictator may be one person, such as Castro in Cuba or Hitler in Germany, or a group of people, such as the Communist Party in China.  . . the official term is Democratic Republic    . Usually, a "democratic republic" is not democratic and is not a republic. A government that officially calls itself a "democratic republic" is usually a dictatorship. Communist dictatorships have been especially prone to use this term. For example, the official name of North Vietnam was "The Democratic Republic of Vietnam." China uses a variant, "The People's Republic of China."  . . the european union could be accused of being an Satrapy: . This was a system of provincial governors, or vassal kings used in Persia. Alexander the Great preserved this system in his conquered territories. In some satrapies, the satrap collected the taxes. . . no government is called an Anarchy. I many cases this is chaos. This sort of arrangement always is replaced by another more organised but still short-lived form of government - e.g. Dictatorship, or more often through conquest by a neighbouring state, government, or military power. . . Occasionally Anarchy is acheived by self-rule. A sort of meta-socialism/meta-democracy. . . A Confederacy is a number of smaller areas banded together under one loose government.  . . One form of goverment on the uprise is a Theocracy Government by religious leadership or priesthood. A common phenomenon among medieval/iron age states in Europe, is now being given a new foot-hold by Islamic cultures.