My boyfriend of 12 1/4 years is a head shorter than me, and about 30 to 40 pounds heavier so sharing clothes doesnt always work. The major thing that I suppose truly bothers me, is that I have to refer to him as my boyfriend or lover. Both of those terms have a TEMPORARY connotation to them. And I dont concider a 12 + year relationship to be temporary, yet its Illegal for us to marry. Apparently not enough gay people give a damn to truly put their foot down and demand equal rights. I dont see a million gays taking to the streets demanding no justice no peace like so many blacks have done before they were given their due. THAT really pisses me off. That gays are happy with what america gives them, the distraction of the gay bars and being the butt of the joke for every sitcome and bs movie that cares to equate the word gay with BAD or worthless. Southpark is a prime example. Southpark is NOT an equal opportunity hater like many claim that they are, for EVERY episode uses teh word gay as if its evil. "THats gay!" or blatenly referring to someone as "f'a'g"- yet if you poll it, you;d find that a great many gays watch the show anyhow. Did you know that ifyoure straight and married to someone that doesnt even love you, that you can get benefits? That you can share their health insurance and even apply for loans based on the fact that your married? Because Im gay, I have to ALWAYS for the rest of my life, place the words "SINGLE" on anything that asks, such as auto insurance forms. I'll always be placed into a higher risk category and thus pay more for my car insurance than someone who is married or even divorced. Did you know that as a gay man, I cant even donate blood? That the redcross REFUSES to accept blood from homosexuals. Can you believe this? WE are concidered, and TREATED like second class citizens in our own country. That our OWN government refuses to allow us to PROTECT our COUNTRY by serving in the armed forces. And if they dont concider us HUMAN enough to protect our own country, WHAT makes anyone think that they concider us HUMAN enough to DEFEND? But no...no....not enough gays give a damn. They feel someone else will stand up or that standing up is pointless. Off to the bars for another good time eh?Whats great about being in my relationship is that Im with someone that I FEEL is my lover, my brother, my father, my son, my best friend, my EVERYTHING thats missing from my life, WITHOUT him. I feel COMPLETE and whole WITH ONE exception. That my own country claims that when I want EQUAL rights, that Im ATTACKING their rights. When I want to be married to a man, they claim that their marriage now needs DEFENDING. They use words like this to make us seem evil. Ever notice how in the media, whenever, WHENEVER you see a character be it on a cartoon or a live action movie or tv show, that the villian is seen with effiminate characteristics? From Flash Gordons Ming the Merciless wearing fingernail polish and a fabulous gown, to silence of the lambs where the villian dances around with his privates hidden between his legs as if he were a female. ITS CONSTANT. Every villian you ever see is purposely placed into a role of "Oh, this guys a f'a'g" no wonder he is evil. AND its not always in your face, its often subtle, and Ive even seen in in pokemon episodes and other kids cartoons where the villian has a mockishly effiminate voice or other mannerisms that scream homosexual. They constantly demonize our people and as I said, not enough of our people give enough of a damn to put their foot down and DEMAND our rights. You even find gays playing the STRAIGHT game, of being republican and going to church. Its so damn sad that it makes me wanna pull out my hair in anger. BUT----at least we found each other and can smile at that. FOR THAT, we are happy.