The terms “college”, “school” and “university” have developed,. from common usage into interchangeable words. As you read through the. answer, you’ll see that a university is typically a larger. institution, made up of smaller specialty schools, such as a School ofMedicine or a Business College.. .  A medical school is the same as a medical college - it's all in. common usage. Medical schools/colleges are under a university, but are. not usually called Medical Universities, although some do. You can see. on this list of medical schools, both in the US and Canada, that  mostschools in the US are not called Medical Universities.. .  I’m sure the following examples will enlighten you about the differences!. .  The US government defines college: “College: An institution of. higher learning that offers undergraduate programs, usually of a. four-year duration, that lead to the bachelor's degree in the arts or. sciences (B.A. or B.S.). The term "college" is also used in a general. sense to refer to a postsecondary institution. A college may also be a. part of the organizational structure of a university.”. . University is defined as: “University: An educational institution that. usually maintains one or more four-year undergraduate colleges (or. schools) with programs leading to a bachelor's degree, a graduate. school of arts and sciences awarding master's degrees and doctorates. (Ph.D.s), and graduate professional schools.”. . Universities, and Institutes: The Distinction Degree-granting. institutions in the United States can be called by any of these terms,. and colleges and institutes are in no way inferior to universities. As. a general rule, colleges tend to be smaller than universities and. usually do not offer doctoral degrees, while a university offers a. wide range of graduate programs, including doctoral degrees.. Universities emphasize research as well as teaching (traditionally a. strength of colleges), and universities that offer doctoral programs. are usually referred to as research universities.