I'll answer your questions in order than ask you one of my own.. . Illegal Immigration started the same time as Immigration Services started.. . Easy.  With only so many people working the border, it's not too difficult to jump a border that is 1,951 miles long.  If you have 200 people, that's roughly 9.75 miles per person.  You look after that amount of land by yourself.  Not to mention people that cross in the back of trucks, packed in crates, etc.. . Big corporations require you have documentation to be hired.  There's a form that you have upon being hired that you need at least 2 pieces of identification in order to be a employee.  Ever see it?. . Greed.  That's the only reason that they need a cheaper labor force.. . Higher skilled for what?  Name one illegal immigrant practicing law, medicine, etc?  You wash dishes, pick fruit, mow lawns, hold up the line at Wal-Mart...  the list goes on.. . They need Bilingual people because of you illegal immigrnats coming to this country that refuse to speak our language.  You want to come to our country so bad, learn our language.  It's the least you can do.. . Mexicans are not stronger, as far as harder working, that is also up for dispute.  I used to work in Irrigation and we had mexicans that worked with us, they took 3 hours breaks and it would take forever to get them back to work.  So hard working...  I worked 13 hours a day to make up for the 3 hours spent slacking off by the mexicans.  I worked hard to get where I am today.  Harder than you'll ever know.  But I'm also not making $8 an hour.. . And now my question for you.... . If you want in so bad to this country, why not do it the RIGHT way, like my grandparents had to do, like most other countries immigrants had to and still have to do?  What makes you the exception to the rule?  You think that because you are the bastardized neighbor of this country the rules don't apply to you?  And I bet you'll be the first to complain when the fence goes up and your people are SHOT for breaking the immigration law under zero tolerance.  The rules apply to all people trying to come to America.  Explain that to me.  What makes you so special?