I assume you are speaking of euthanasia for humans…  Many people I think see it as suicide which is against most religions.  I think most anyone who is against euthanasia has never had a loved one die in front of them, slowly and painfully with a terminal illness.  The people who say that euthanasia or “assisted suicide” is wrong don’t understand how wrong and inhumane it is to keep people alive who are living in utter agony and hell with no quality of life or hopes there of.  People who disagree with euthanasia must not really believe that a soul moves forward after this physical existence or else they wouldn’t think it such a big deal for someone to move on when they have gotten all that they can from this life.. . Yes there are concerns of abuse, health care industry shortcut, families with ulterior motives, euthanasia of children with minor birth defects, etc but that is with everything.  Do you not allow a police force because they could abuse the power.  Do you not allow organ donation (Which does get abused) because the medic is playing god, do you not allow people to drive on the roads because they could get into an accident?  Even horrid killers we go out of our way to make sure we end their life without any pain but yet because of peoples fears, 10,000s of thousands of good people are living just to die with every new day more painful than the last while their family sits by grieving building memories they will never forget, memories that never should have been.  It is not to reject the importance of humanity but to embrace it, to deny needless suffering into this world.  Fear far too long has interfered with progress.  Taking away a perfectly good life from this earth is much more different than helping someone move past the purgatory of intermediary death.  Obviously the decision to euphonize should only be with concurrence from a medical expert, the patient and or a very close family member.. . . To answer your question it is fear and lack of an experience where euthanasia is warranted , that is why people are against the idea of euthanasia.