Firstly, if we have to analyse the religions existing, not one of them has the universal appeal of Islam wherein every race, every nationality is accepted without prejudice. Secondly, not one of them appeals to the logic of man in the way Islam does, setting out the facts of life in such a manner which delights the rational mind. Look at Christianity, with its confusing belief of trinity, that three is one and one is three. Look at their Bible, yearly it is edited and changed to conform to the demands of the everchanging trends of mankind. What type of revelation is this? Then, we look at Judaism. One look at the structure of this religion is enough to show that it cannot be the true religion of God. Why? Because Judaism is a religion open only to a selected few. You have to be born a Jew in order to be a Jew. Conversion is possible, but only if they decide to accept you which is quite rare. There is no universal call in this religion. How can the religion that the Creator chose for his creation only cater for a selected few? Hinduism, with its complex systems of gods and godlings, idols, etc. The rationale mind rejects this. In fact, just take a look at their temples. The images of the deities are so horrific that it confounds the minds as to how one can worship such things. It is only Allah who allows one to see the light. Similarly, one may look at any religion and you will definitely find it flawed, with the sole exception of Islam. so masterfully preserved are its teachings that this alone shows the hand of God behind it. The shining glory to erase any doubt is none other than the magnificence of the noble Qur?aan, the word of God! Nabi [Sallallahu Alayhi Wasallam] said, ?All of the prophets were given such miracles as inspired people to believe. And the miracle that I have been given is the Qur?aan.? (Bukhari) What are those features of the Qur?aan which prove it to be the word of God? There are many but we shall refer only a few. The ultimate challenge which the Qur?aan has placed before mankind 1400 years ago ??and if you are in doubt of what we have revealed to our servant, produce one chapter comparable to it. Call upon your helpers besides God to assist you, if what you say is true.? (Qur?aan 2:23) Needless to say, this challenge has not to this day been met. Many have tried all have met with failure, proving the divine origin of the Qur?aan. Then is pristine purity in which the Qur?aan has reached us. Not one word, nay even a letter has been changed since its revelation. Then there are the many predictions of the Qur?aan which have turned exactly as predicted, pointing again to the divine imprint of such a being whose knowledge is all encompassing. Furthermore, how many scientific, medical and astronomical facts are mentioned in the Qur?aan, the knowledge of which was non-existent at the time of its revelation. These are but brief facts alluding to its divine origin. For more detail on this subject refer to ?God Arises? by Ml. Wahiduddin Khan, ?the Bible, Qur?aan and Science? by Maurice Bucaille and ?al-Qur?aan ? the Miracle of Miracles? by Ahmed Deedat amongst many other books.