That's a very good question actually, and you don't need to pre-defend it.. . Here are some points. . The Qur'an was revealed over a period of 23 years . During the entire 23 years, . . the Allah sent the archangel Gabriel to teach the Prophet the Qur'an. Whenever he would receive certain verses, he would recite it to people who wrote them down. After the words were written down, they would be recited back to the Prophet pbuh to make sure there were no errors - After the Prophet pbuh was satisfied all was correct, they would be put into safe keeping.. . . Here's an excerpt from IslamOnline.net. . Many Ahadith explain how frequently they used to consult the Prophet regarding their recitation of the Qur’an and beautiful stories were told about women who asked their husbands-to-be to teach them a part of the Qur’an as their dowries. . . Method of preservations of the Qur’an during the Prophet's time . . Besides, those of the Companions who were literate used to keep a written record of several portions of the Holy Qur'an. In this manner, the text of the Holy Qur'an had been preserved in 4 different ways during the lifetime of the Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him: . . a) The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, had the whole text of the Divine Messages from the beginning to the end committed to writing by the scribes of revelations. The Prophet used to keep scribes in his service. The four Rightly Guided Caliphs, as well as Zayd ibn Thabit, Ubayy ibn Ka‘b, Mu‘awiya ibn Abi Sufyan are among those who were known as scribes. . . . b) Many of the Companions learned the whole text of the Qur’an, every syllable of it, by heart. . . . c) All the illustrious Companions, without any exception, had memorized at least some portions of the Holy Qur'an, for the simple reason that it was obligatory for them to recite it during worship. . . . d) A considerable number of the literate Companions kept a private record of the text of the Qur'an and satisfied themselves as to the purity of their record by reading it out to the Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him. . . . Hope this helps. You can also read ==> The Qur’an is the Accurately Preserved Word of Allah  or ==> authenticity of the Glorious Qur'an