Whatever gave you the faith that you have in the love of God that you are speaking of here had to come from some kind of sign that you considered sufficient to prove its reality to you. Your own faith didn't pop up out of nowhere, did it? Were you born believing in God? No, you were taught to believe in God and you accepted the signs you saw. Many people weren't taught what you were taught nor have seen that sign, whatever it was for you. Nor have they seen any sign that satisfies their more analytical ways of thinking and understanding. Some people simply require more proof before believing anything. Thomas, for one, for an example from the Bible. I forget, did he get sent to hell for wondering? . . Without some sign or indication, some kind of tangible proof that something is real and true, no one ever puts trust or faith in anything, whether you are speaking mathematics, medicine, meteorolgy or anything whatsoever.  Those kind of things are required to make sense and be understandable or their assumptions and theories are tossed out or refined until they  agree with observation. They cannot be taken on blind unquestioning faith or we would be in a whole big world of hurt. There are sloppy scientists in the world, too, but I wouldn't want them working for NASA if I were going to the moon! Why is the question of the reality of God treated any differently? Why does it not require testing? I know what the Bible says about leaning on one's own understanding, but that's the only way that some people's minds work - they require nuts and bolts common sense observervable tangible logical proof.  Is it a sin or a display of arrogant stupidity and vanity, to require proof of the reality of something, anything, even God and his love, before embracing it as truth?. . Sign or no sign, life goes on as it does, as we make it, the good, the bad, the in-between, life is the result of our own actions and chance.  Lack of any clear sign and a multitude of apparent contradictions in the Bible can only lead a thinking rational person to assume that there is no God watching over us with love. Science requires proof, why doesn't God?  From what I've ever seen, God may have created the universe, but he sits back while we run our own lives. Beyond that, he is as much or as little as you think he is.. . I won't sit around waiting for the ten points on this one. It's a heart-felt, gut-felt answer, but probably not what you want hear.