You cannot personally understand God, at all, with your mind.  Your mind is a part of your body.  A human being is made in a thrice structure.  You are one individual with three parts.  You have a soul (deep inside), a body (outside; what you see, touch, feel), and a spirit (between your body and soul).  You know God by your soul and spirit.  God made your body with the dust of the earth, but your soul and your spirit were made by God's breath.  Your thoughts come from deep within, and your spirit makes them known to you in your body's mind.. . You are in error concerning your structure.. . --- If anyone is in Christ (Jesus) they are then one with him in spirit.. . --- A Disciple of Jesus is one with God in their spirit.. . See --- we human beings are made in God’s image.  What is God’s image?  Father (as if the Soul of God), the Son (the Body of God), and the Spirit (the Spirit of God).  Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is ONE.  God is of thrice structure.  He is not three, but one.. . Now --- look at ourselves… aren’t you one person?  Of course.  You are a creation… that is made in His image… as a representation of God’s image.. . 1CO 2:9 However, as it is written: "No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love him" --  1CO 2:10 but God has revealed it to us by his Spirit. The Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.  1CO 2:11 For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the man's spirit within him? In the same way no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.. . Closely look --- at 1 Corinthians 2:11 --- . In your own spirit, you are one with the Spirit of Jesus.  To understand God, you seek him in your spirit.  How is that?  The Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.  So, if you are really united with God in spirit, you can seek by your spirit.. . You can pray in the Spirit of God, and he will speak (audible) to you from your heart (spiritual center; soul) if you trust in Jesus, are patient, and seek.  To truely know God --- you need to know/understand him personally… by being in the Spirit.. . To be in the Spirit… you must seek inside for the Spirit of Jesus, praying to know the full person of God.