YES, he will eventually bite you unless you take steps to correct this misbehavior, or unless you choose to obey his orders for the rest of his life.. . Somewhere between 8 and 18 months, dogs hit their maturity.  At this age, their behavior changes and they start to test their owners.  Sometimes the testing is mild; sometimes, as in your case, the testing can lead to potential disaster.. . You need to re-evaluate your relationship with your dog.  You need to fully assume the role of a boss in your situation, become the alpha in your 'pack'.  Until and unless you do, the dog will try to take over the position himself more and more.. . There are numerous, non-physical, ways of becoming your dog's alpha:. . * Feed him after you have had a meal.  If time doesn't allow this, pretend to eat out of his dish before giving it to him.  (alpha eats first, always). . * Make sure he walks behind you going up and down stairs, down narrow hallways, and especially going in and out of doors.  Attach a short lead to him and hold him back if necessary. (alpha leads the way). . * Make him move out of the way if he is laying in the path you are walking on.  Don't walk around him or step over him.  If he is in the way, give a firm "MOVE" command, and either gently nudge him with your toe or take him by the collar and have him move. (alpha has a clear path at all times). . * Make him earn treats, food, petting, anything good, by obeying a command.  Have him sit, at the least, before granting him the good things in life. (alpha owns everything, all others have to earn them). . * Enroll in an obedience course, read a book, ask a friend with a well-trained dog for advice, but get him trained to obey you in some manner.  (alpha speaks, underlings obey). . * He doesn't sleep in your bed, not even in your bedroom during this challenging period. (alpha gets the best sleeping spot). . * He isn't allowed on furniture, especially on the high backs of couches/chairs, at his own whim.  If you choose, you can invite him up, but he only goes up upon invitation and gets down when ordered. (alpha gets the best resting spots). . Truly, you need to change your attitude towards this dog.  He will only escalate if not checked asap.  Do it for his sake, if not your own.  If he bites, you will receive some pain, but he will likely be killed for this action.. . Above all, remember he is a dog, you are a human.  He is reliant upon you for all things in life.  He is your underling.  A beloved underling, yes, but your attitude has to reflect the true places the two of you hold for the most harmonious relationship.. . Good luck.