Gospel of Judas . Date before 180, mentioned by Irenaeus . Attribution no attribution . Location El Minya, Egypt near Beni Masar, . Sources no academic consensus . Manuscripts Codex Tchacos, references in early Christian writings . Audience Cainites / Sethians - Gnostic sects . Theme The loyalty of Judas . . . The Gospel of Judas is a Gnostic gospel, the text of which was partially reconstructed in 2006. It has a strong positive focus on Judas Iscariot, but does not claim to have been written by him. According to the canonical Gospels, Judas betrayed Jesus Christ to the Roman authorities by whom he was crucified. The Gospel of Judas portrays this act positively, as one performed in obedience to the instructions of Jesus, rather than as a betrayal. This positive portrayal follows from the Gnostic notion that the human form is confining, and that Judas was to put into motion events that would release the Spirit of Christ from its physical constraints.. . The Gospel of Judas does not claim that the other disciples were in agreement with such teachings. On the contrary, its message is that the disciples have not learned the true Gospel, which Jesus taught only to Judas Iscariot, as exemplified in the following words: "Knowing that Judas was reflecting upon something that was exalted, Jesus said to him: Step away from the others [the disciples] and I shall tell you the mysteries of the Kingdom. It is possible for you to reach it, but you will grieve a great deal. For someone else will replace you, in order that the twelve (disciples) may again come to completion with their God.". . The Gospel of Judas goes even further, showing Jesus in various instances criticizing the other disciples for their ignorance. When they present a vision they had to him, he points out the vision's true meaning as follows: "Those you have seen receiving the offerings at the altar — that is who you are. That is the God you serve, and you are those twelve men you have seen. The cattle you have seen brought for sacrifice are the many people you lead astray before that altar. (. . .) will stand and make use of My name in this way, and generations of the pious will remain loyal to Him.". . Though it is assumed that roughly fifty gospels existed during the early church, [1] there remains further information for only twenty of them, four of which are the canonical gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The Gospel of Judas is one of the sixteen other gospels about which some information has historically been preserved in early church writings. Of these twenty writings, however, the four canonical gospels were the only ones that the emerging early Christian orthodoxy considered to be divinely inspired.. . The manuscript called Codex Tchacos, the only known manuscript that includes the text of the Gospel, surfaced in the 1970s, after about sixteen centuries in the desert of Egypt as a leather-bound papyrus manuscript. The papyri on which the Gospel is written are fragmentary, with some sections missing. In some cases, there are only scattered words; in others, many lines. This is most likely due to the wear and tear associated with the elements and the passage of time. According to Rodolphe Kasser, the codex originally contained 62 pages; but when it came to the market in 1999, only 26 pages remained because individual pages had been removed and put up for sale. From time to time, these missing pages appear and are identified.. . The manuscript was radiocarbon dated to between 220 and 340 by Timothy Jull, a carbon-dating expert at the University of Arizona</a>'s physics center.. . Due to textual analysis for linguistic quirks, such as arcane language features, and features that become lost in translation, most academics who have analysed the Gospel of Judas believe that it is probably a translation from an older Greek work dating to AD 130–170. In addition, the early Christian writer Irenaeus of Lyons referred to the Gospel