For the record, prepared raw fish is sashimi.  Not all sushi is sashimi.  Sushi actually comes in many forms -- the most traditional being "nigiri", which is the rice ball wth something on top.  These toppings can indeed be cooked -- Unagi (roasted eel), bean curd, Ebi (cooked shrimp), egg...just to name a few.  The other most common type is "maki", which is the rolled variety...like the infamous California roll. . . If you're asking how to prepare sushi yourself, it's not something you just pick up in a book or here online.  It's considered an art form -- mostly about technique and presentation -- and masters in Japan train for years to perfect it.  I wouldn't jump right into the raw style of sushi until you are positive you have a source for the absolute freshest ingredients.  Also, to properly prepare raw fish for sashimi, you need some specific knives and a lot of practice. . . Instead, consider a vegetarian rolled sushi like cucumber or dare I say a California roll.  Possibly the most difficult part of preparing sushi is getting the rice just right -- the type of rice, the time it needs to cook, the amount of water used, the amount of rice vinegar mixed in, and the temperature.  Unfortunately I can't offer a recipe because I'm not a sushi chef...I just spend a lot of time in sushi places talking to the chefs. :D  There are probably hundreds of recipes floating around on the net.  The other essential ingredients are wasabi (usually a powder you mix with water), soy sauce, and nori (dried seaweed).  . . Sushi is only as good as its weakest element, so it is best to use top-quality ingredients here.  I.e.  Go to a Japanese food store, not the "Asian" section of Safeway. :)  For rolled sushi, you will also need a roller (big surprise there).. . To prepare a simple rolled sushi, you would place the nori atop the roller (usually covered with plastic wrap), then gently press a thin layer of prepared rice on top of that -- call it half an inch thick.  The rice should cover then entire width of the nori, but leave a little bit of space at the top and bottom -- these are the edges that will eventually be "glued" together to keep the roll together.  The other ingredients should form a thin strip across the middle -- the actual amount depends on the size of your roll, but you don't want so much that the ends of the nori don't touch.  Working quickly, but carefully, roll from the top or bottom until you form a tube -- keep it tight, but don't smash it.  When the tube is formed, you can seal it with a very very small amount of moisture -- the nori edges stick together like glue.. . The technique of rolling and determining the right amount of rice/filling does take practice, so be prepared to eat your mistakes.  This is why I advise practicing on "cheap" ingredients like cucumber rolls...once you perfect that, you can move on to tougher stuff.  It's also important to remember that rolled sushi isn't meant to sit around for long...the nori will eventually absord the moiusture from the rice and get very tough.