Albert Einstein:. . . The whole of science is nothing more than a refinement of everyday thinking.. . . Reality is the real business of physics.. . . The creative scientist studies nature with the rapt gaze of the lover, and is guided as often by aesthetics as by rational considerations in guessing how nature works.. . . Here arises a puzzle that has disturbed scientists of all periods. How is it possible that mathematics, a product of human thought that is independent of experience, fits so excellently the objects of physical reality? Can human reason without experience discover by pure thinking properties of real things?. . . The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is comprehensible.. . . Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.. . . Whoever has undergone the intense experience of successful advances made [in science] is moved by the profound reverence for the rationality made manifest in science.. . . That deeply emotional conviction of the presence of a superior reasoning power, which is revealed in the incomprehensible universe, forms my idea of God.. . . The only way to escape the personal corruption of praise is to go on working. One is tempted to stop and listen to it. The only thing is to turn away and go on working. Work. There is nothing else.. . . One ought to be ashamed to make use of the wonders of science embodied in a radio set, while appreciating them as little as a cow appreciates the botanical marvels in the plant she munches. . . . We believe in the possibility of a theory which is able to give a complete description of reality, the laws of which establish relations between the things themselves and not merely between their probabilities ... God does not play dice.. . . Insofar as mathematics is about reality, it is not certain, and insofar as it is certain, it is not about reality.. . . The most beautiful experience we can have is the mysterious. It is the fundamental emotion which stands at the cradle of true art and true science. He to whom this emotion is a stranger, who can no longer wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead.. . . Have holy curiosity.. . . Gravitation cannot be held responsible for people falling in love.. . . Where the world ceases to be the scene of our personal hopes and wishes, where we face it as free beings admiring, asking and observing, there we enter the realm of Art and Science.. . . Watch the stars, and from them learn. To the Master's honor all must turn, each in its track, without a sound, forever tracing Newton's ground.. . . Things should be made as simple as possible, but not any simpler.. . . Sometimes one pays most for the things one gets for nothing.. . . Common sense is a collection of prejudices acquired by age 18.. . . Problems cannot be solved at the same level of awareness that created them.. . . If I were not a physicist, I would probably be a musician. I often think in music. I live my dreams in music. I see my life in terms of music... I get most joy in life out of music.. . . I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.. . . The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science . . . The release of atomic energy has not created a new problem. It has merely made more urgent the necessity of solving an existing one ... I do not believe that civilization will be wiled out in a war fought with the atomic bomb. Perhaps two thirds of the people of the Earth will be killed.. . Perfection of means and confusion of ends seems to characterize our age.. . The important thing is not to stop questioning. . . The process of scientific discovery is, in effect, a continual flight from wonder.. . If my theory of relativity is proven successful, Germany will claim me as a German ... should my theory prove untrue ... Germany will declare that I am a