My parents were pastors, so I started going to a protestant, Foursquare, church when I was 2 days old.  As a teenager, I rebelled and ran away from the whole church thing all together.  My husband was raised Catholic but by the time we started dating, neither one of us were going to church at all.. . When I was 28, my best friend talked me into going to church with her.  It was a quiet Babtist church.  Much quieter than the Pentecostal one I grew up in.  But God had a purpose.  You see, my husband had gone to a "Holy Rollers" overly loud church once as a kid.  He thought that all Christian churches were like that.  I promised him that this one was nothing like that.  I told him if he would go with me once I would never bug him again.  A couple of weeks later, he finally went and he loved it.  . . God used that quiet Baptist church to get my husband interested.  After three years, we both wanted "more".  It was time for us to move to another city and we were sad to leave our church family.  One of the associate pastors suggested that we try out an Assembley of God Church that his good friend was the pastor of.  . . We tried it, and ended up staying there for the next four years, even though we lived next door to the largest Baptist church in town.  . . I really think that God chooses for us.  He knows our personalities and leads us to where we are needed and feel most comfortable.  . . We recently decided that the A/G church was too big for us, Oct '05.  We started getting lost in the crowd of 3500 people.  Our oldest boy, John, was spending the night with a friend who kept taking him to a little church called Heart of the Valley.  Each time he went, he would come home excited about the service and the message that the pastor was teaching.  He bugged us to try it.  We had already decided to switch churches, so we gave it a try.  It wasn't until after we decided that we would continue going there that I found out it is a Foursquare Church.  Right back where I started from.  God led us there without us even knowing it.  . . You see we were needed in this church.  we have only been there a few months, but I have already been invited to be in a music ministry.  God is good all the time and I believe Jer 29:11.  He has a mighty plan for us.  We just need to remain faithful and wait for the Master Craftman to reveal it to us.