Basically, Nero Claudius Caesar died because the centralized authority of the Caesars was diminishing.. . Nero acceded to the throne upon the death (probably assassination by his wife Agrippina, Nero's mother) of Emperor Claudius, and Nero appears throughout his reign to have taken for granted that the power of the Julio-Claudian Caesars could never be challenged by any external power.  But the truth is that his predecessor, Claudius, who many historians believe to have had pro-Republican sentiments, had made a practice of diminshing the central power of the Emperor and rebuilding the authority of the Senate.. . Nero's taxation policies on the provinces were so extreme that by 68 CE, many provinces were in open revolt.  The Roman Legions no longer significantly supported Nero, and neither did the Praetorian Guard, the imperial shock troops/security forces who had essentially controlled who became emperor since the days of Caligula and who themselves chose Claudius as emperor.  Without the backing of the Army and the Guard, no Emperor long remained in power, but Nero appeared oblivious to the threats to his reign.. . In June of 68CE, the Senate declared Nero an enemy of the people--the first time the Senate had effectively defied a Caesar--and his death by flogging was ordered by the Senate.  Ironically, had Nero appealed to the Roman People to rise up, they probably would have, for among the citizens of the Imperial City he was enormously  popular because of his lavish spending on "bread and circuses" using some of the gains from his enormous taxation of the provinces.  Instead, Nero turned to the Guard to take him out of Rome by ship, but the Guard command refused.  On June 9, a desperate Nero was informed that forces loyal to the Senate were closing on the Imperial palace to arrest him, so he stabbed himself in the neck.  His ineffectual attempt did not kill  him, however, and his personal secretary had to finish him off.  According to Suetonius, he died with the words "What a great artist dies with me!". . Nero was the last of the Julio-Claudian Emperors.