The blue color of the sky is due to Rayleigh scattering. As light moves through the atmosphere, most of the longer wavelengths pass straight through. Little of the red, orange and yellow light is affected by the air. . . However, much of the shorter wavelength light is absorbed by the gas molecules. The absorbed blue light is then radiated in different directions. It gets scattered all around the sky. Whichever direction you look, some of this scattered blue light reaches you. Since you see the blue light from everywhere overhead, the sky looks blue. . . . .   As you look closer to the horizon, the sky appears much paler in color. To reach you, the scattered blue light must pass through more air. Some of it gets scattered away again in other directions. Less blue light reaches your eyes. The color of the sky near the horizon appears paler or white. . . Rayleigh scattering refers to the scattering of light off of the molecules of the air, and can be extended to scattering from particles up to about a tenth of the wavelength of the light. It is Rayleigh scattering off the molecules of the air which gives us the blue sky. Lord Rayleigh calculated the scattered intensity from dipole scatterers much smaller than the wavelength to be: . . . Rayleigh scattering can be considered to be elastic scattering since the photon energies of the scattered photons is not changed. Scattering in which the scattered photons have either a higher or lower photon energy is called Raman scattering. Usually this kind of scattering involves exciting some vibrational mode of the molecules, giving a lower scattered photon energy, or scattering off an excited vibrational state of a molecule which adds its vibrational energy to the incident photon. . . Why isn't the sky black?. Our sky is colored because our atmosphere makes blue light when sunlight passes through it. This phenomenon is called "scattering." It is similar to when sunbeams reveal themselves in the presence of dust, most spectacularly in cathedrals. The atmosphere causes the sky to be colored. . . .     .  If there were no atmosphere, the sky would appear black, like the lunar sky in Apollo pictures taken from the moon. But even a black sky has some lightness... Even at night, the sky always has a faint color, called "skyglow" by astronomers. Atmospheres also cause skyglow from faint airglow in the upper atmosphere (a permanent, low-grade aurora), and starlight scattered in the atmosphere. Even if there were no atmosphere, faint skyglow is caused by sunlight reflected off interplanetary dust (zodiacal light), and background light from faint, unresolved stars and nebulosity.