I am an atopic dermatits patient.I've had this condition for 40+ years.When I read some of the things you tried I just wanted to scream:"That will make the eczema worse!"Some of the answers I read also elicited the same reaction!The first thing I am going to ask is have you gone to a dermatologist yet? A regular doctor is not helpful with this disease.. . STAY AWAY FROM SCENTED PRODUCTS. Get rid of the baby oil,get rid of the Eucerin,get RID OF THE SOAP!!Soap is very drying and exacerbates the problem.DON"T USE LANOLIN!!A thousand lashes to the person who suggested that! Lanolin is an irritant to atopic skin.. These things you can use. But let me warn you,you are not going to get a miracle cure.There is no cure.Eczema can only be treated and the rashes last for a while.My worst flare ups lasted for four years and I was under a dermatologist's care,using prescription medications:. . Cetaphil is used instead of soap and instead of lotion.You will be getting the bar cleanser,the lotion cleanser,and the moisturizing cream.The lotion cleanser can be used with water or without;the directions are on the back of the bottle.. . Cortaid is the best bet for over -the- counter medications.It just takes a long time and you have to moisturize,moisturize,moisturize.Cortaid comes in a moisturizng formula,now.You can also add an antihistamine . to the list.. . Precription medications that are good,but also take a long time are hydrocortisone and Lidex. Stay away from Protopc and Elidel until these two medications have been cleared of any connection to increased skin cancer risk.Steroids are often used,but after the prednisone is stopped,the rashes come right back,and the patient is left with some risky side-effects(did you know that steroids thin your blood and that you have to inform dentists and surgeons that you took this drug?).. . Don't over bathe or shower.Water is an irritant to atopic skin because it's drying.Forget about swimming a lot this summer,too.. . Avoid creams that contain benzocaine or antihistamines.Antihistamines are taken orally and not applied to the skin.. Don't use Vasoline or any greasy ointments.. Stay away from lotions that contain alpha-hydroxy acids unless the dermatologist prescribes it.. Keep nails short and clean and try not to scratch.This is very hard;I've had this condition since I was 4 years old and eventhough I am an adult sometimes I forget myself and scratch which only makes things worse.It's quite possible to scratch and tear the skin and cause an infection.. . I am providing you with some sources that I've collected over the years.It also may be a good idea for you to go to the library and look for books on skin conditions.These sources will serve as your guidelines but it is a lot of personalizing for the patient that really works. Good luck,and remember  to be patient! Stress only makes eczema worse.