Well, just imagine if I believe that you had to be painted purple to be "saved" according to my theology. If I went around painting people purple because I believed it was the right thing to do, it might upset some/most people. I understand that this is an extreme example. But it illustrates a point.. . To those of us who believe you have deluded yourself into believing a bunch of malarkey, it is irritating when you try to "force" your beliefs on us (mindlessly) by spewing a bunch of crap from a book. A book that proves nothing but that some people wrote a bunch of stuff down that THEY thought was what their god was telling them.  Then they convinced a bunch of other people to believe it. It is primarily passed on via indoctrination of the young.. . Now, when you discuss your beliefs in an informative and open-minded way, it is not nearly as irritating. If your only response is "because the bible says so", you've lost any hope of convincing most non-believers.. . Everyone is judgmental. If you don't make judgments in life, I don't think you will survive.  However, to base those judgments on made up BS doesn't impress anyone but the others who subscribe to the same BS.. . Hypocrisy is not reserved for the Christians, although they are good at it.. . You can tell me I'm going to hell all you want. It doesn't bother me. It just makes me think you are a fool.. . As to being offensive, how about those morons who protest and say things like "God hates fags" and crap like that. I know they don't represent mainstream Christians, but they are the analogy to my purple people painting example.. . Most of the people I know (friends and family) are Christians. I certainly don't hate them. I respect their right to their beliefs.  We discuss religion. At some point you have to accept that some people accept that "blind faith" is the correct path, and other accept "logic, reason, and scientific proof" as the better method.. . If I'm wrong, you can giggle at me from heaven. If I'm right you don't have to worry about me saying "I told you so."