1.     Use a deck of UNO cards. The deck has 108 cards consisting of four suits, wild cards, and word cards with directions on them..  . 2.  Choose a dealer by having each player pick one card. The person with the highest number is the dealer. Word cards count as zero..  . 3.  Deal each player seven cards and place the remaining cards face down in the middle of the table. This is the draw pile..  . 4.  Turn the top card of the draw pile over to form the discard pile..  . 5.  Take turns beginning with the player to the dealer's left and go clockwise around the table..  . 6.  Place one of your cards on the discard pile when it's your turn. Your card must have the same number, color or wording as the top card of the discard pile - or be a wild card..  . 7.  Draw a card if you cannot discard. Play the drawn card if you can. If you can't, it's the next person's turn..  . 8.  Announce a suit when you place a wild card on the discard pile. You can play a wild card any time it's your turn and can name any suit you wish..  . 9.  Announce a suit when you place a Draw Four card on the discard pile..  . 10.  Follow the directions of a word card that is played on the discard pile by the player preceding you. This may mean that you have to draw two cards, skip a turn or even draw four cards..  . 11.  Say "UNO" when you have one card left in your hand. If you forget to say UNO and another player catches you, you must draw two cards..  . 12.  Tally all the points when one player is out of cards. .  .  . Tips:. When the card turned over to form the discard pile is a Wild Draw Four, put it back in the draw pile and turn over another card..  . If the top card of the discard pile is a green two, for example, the next player may play either a green card, any color number two card, or a wild card..  .  . Warnings:. A Wild Draw Four card causes the next player to draw four cards and forfeit his or her turn. Play this card only when you have no card of the color previously played..  . The person required to draw four may "challenge" the person who played the card. The challenged person must show his or her cards to the challenger. If that person, indeed, has no cards of the proper color, the challenger must draw two additional cards. If the person does have the right color and illegally played a Wild Draw Four card, that player must draw four, and it now is the challenger's turn.. . The "H2o" part is just saying that the cards are laminated, and that you can use them in the pool, sprinkler, etc.