The best topical approach is Super Lysine Plus Ointment by Quantum:. . http://www.quantumhealth.com/. . However, this product is not near as miraculous as it was 2 years ago.  Prior to ~2005/2004, this contained Lithium Bicarbonate (the same form used orally and intramuscularly to treat schizofrenia).  My guess is that the manufacturer gopt on trouble for selling Lithium w/o a prescription even though 1) it was topical and 2) it contained trace amounts of lithium similar to levels you may find in nature in Coral Reefs or some clays.  It is possible that Lithium is so effective and so cheap that the manufacturers of any or all of the Prescription Meds (which costs anywhere from $3 to $6/day) put pressure on the FDA to make them stop selling their product w/ Lithium.. . Quantum's website still states that their lip ointment contains Lithium, but it no longer does.  I may contact them soon about this.  Not only does the product labelling no longer list Lithium, but the product does not work as miraculously well as it once did.. . Orally:. . 1)  Licorice is just as good as Valtrex or any of the other prescription meds and has FAR less side effects.  Valtrex can cause duodenal & peptic ulcers that are difficult to treat.  Licorice actually not only impedes the viruses replication but amazingly enough also protects the GastroIntestinal tract.. . 2)  Lysine.  This Amino Acid has been known for decades to impede the replication of the virus.  Very large doses are need to be effective (on the order of 3 to 6 grams/150-pounds body mass).  It is good to have a combo of both Left (L) and Right (D) chirals of the Amino Acid (DL = Left and Right combo).  Most Health Foods stores sell only L-Lysine.  L-lysine is also the most abundant in nature (foods -- beans, meats and dairy).. . IMPORTANT:. ==========. Arginine can be devestating for Cold Sores and Herpes.  Some topical beauty products (moisturizers, for example) contain Arginine.  Oral administration is especially devestating.  Arginine had been used for decades as an Over-The-Counter (OTC) treatment for heart disease (hypertension mostly) and even Erectile Dysfunction (ED), even decades before Viagra et al.  Now, Arginine is sold on claims of penile enlargement.  It helps improve blood flow throughout the body.  Both Arginine and Lysine effect Nitrogen levels in the blood.  I do not know anything more on the topic of amino acids and blood nitrogen levels otherthan they somehow impact Blood Pressure and Erection.  Arginine PROMOTE REPLICATION of the virus.  Viruses are the smallest living organism and are constructed from Amino Acids.. . REMEMBER:. Arginine promotes HSV replication.. Lysine impedes HSV replication.. . In fact, a nutritional approach is to eat foods w/ high Lysine-to-Arginine ratios at the very first signs of outbreaks:. . i)  DAIRY, DAIRY, DAIRY. ii)  Papaya. iii)  Mango. iv)  Beet. v)  Apricot. vi)  Apple. vii)  Pear. . Mango Butter lotions may be effective topically if they cotain sufficiently high Mango and do not contain added Arginine.. . 3)  Super Lysine Plus Tablets. . 4)  Zinc (oxide, gluconate, whatever, though gluconate is often more nauseating).  Zinc should always be taken before a meal and should not be taken chronically.. . 5)  Lithium is as good as Licorice but harderto get.  HOWEVER, it is found in an elite few "Homeopathic" concoctions and is available in many Trace Minerials Dietary supplements and is, or at least was, an unadvertised additive to one of GNC's Colloidal Silver supplements.  The disadvantage to these approaches is you may get alot of crap your body doesn't need while getting suboptimal levels of Lithium.  Or you may wish to act crazy and see if a doc or hospital psych ward will prescribe Lithium.  LOL J/K  However, since Lithium is so cheap, hardly anyone profits from it so it is not likely they'd even prescribe Lithium.  Homeopathic avenues on the internet are perhaps the best bet.  Also, I used to know two othe