G.I.G.O.. Garbage In, Garbage Out.. . The Bible simply does not hold water as a tome of any great wisdom. It is simply a compilation of garbage. Scientifically, it doesn't add up. Historically, it's wildly inaccurate. The teachings within it are contradictory and often too convoluted to make any sense whatsoever. The story isn't even original within the confines of the text, or significantly unique among religious philosophies. . . Every religion has a story about the beginning of life, and a story about how life will end. They speak of afterlives and prophesies, and there is a supernatural order to things in each one. Many contain tales of gods having mortal children, and almost all of them end their earthly days in tragedy. Even myths like Christ rising from the dead are not unknown in other, older faiths. . . Most Christians are unaware that the popularity of Christianity is historically attributed to pagan Rome. In about the 3rd century, Romans began to feel sympathetic to the plight of Christians being used in the games. Their refusal to deny their faith touched them time and again as they died horrible deaths pleading to Christ to save them. At the same time, another popular cult, the cult of Mythra, was thriving. Mythra, born of a virgin on the 25th of December, was a typical Roman Hero/God. One of the rituals of the Mythrans was a baptism in the blood of a bull, in which the alcolyte recieves salvation. As a result of this baptism, the initiate became enlightened and began to enter into the deeper mysteries of the cult. This is strikingly similar to the combined concepts of recieving redemption through drinking the blood of Christ and Baptism. Anyway, the two cults were so similar in practice in other ways that many Christians (seeking refuge from persecution in the games) would become members of the cult of Mythra where they could practice Christianity in the guise of a legal religion. This merging of the two cults was the catalist that eventually led to Christianity becoming legal, and later the state religion of Rome. Many of the Christian practices, like the day of Christs birth, are actually part of the cult of Mythra.. . Jesus Christ was certainly a great Rabbi, but if you read a little history and educate yourself in the Jewish faith, (remember that Jesus WAS a Jew...) you will find that Jesus was actually an exorcist. His life, as portrayed in the Bible, parallels the common career of Rabbi exorcists in his time. When Christians point to the story of Lazarus as their proof of the power of Christ it is because, in their ignorance of history, they fail to realize that raising the dead was a popular practice among Jewish exorcists.. . Something that the Christian faith has managed to supress among its followers is that there were actually a great many people like Jesus in the Holy Land. Jesus was not particularly significant among them. In fact, about 100 years after Jesus died, another man came along that the Jews believed was the actual Christ. Like Jesus though, in the end he did not fullfil the entire prophesy of the Christ, and like Christ, his own prophesies were not completely fulfilled.. . For myself though, what it really boils down to is simply this: I am not Jewish, and have only an intellectual understanding of the life of Jews in Jesus time. Jesus was a Jew. While in this day and age we think we know what those prophesies of the Christ entailed, those people lived with it intimately on a daily basis. I find the fact that most Jews of his day did not accept him as their prophesied savior the most damning evidence against him. If the followers of the Jewish faith refuse to accept Jesus as the Christ, who are we (who do not follow that faith) to say that they are wrong?. . One cannot be a Jew AND a Christian as a matter of faith. To be one, you must deny the other. My question; if you are not a Jew, what makes you think you have enough understanding of the origins of Christianity to believe t