Analysis. The dictionary defines the noun fusion as meaning “the act or procedure of liquefying or melting by the application of heat”. It would appear that heat has a central role in the process of melting. In the context of nuclear science, fusion is accompanied by the release of a large amount of energy either in a controlled manner or in an uncontrolled manner as in a bomb. . In 1989 a story that made headlines concerned cold fusion. This was when an English chemist B. Stanley Pons and an American chemist Martin Fleischmann claimed that they had achieved nuclear fusion using simple equipment operating at room temperature. . . Controlled fusion was something which the scientists had been seeking to achieve for quite some time. It would be a source of inexhaustible amount of energy that would revolutionize our world. And in the bargain avoid the environmental hazards of (i) nuclear waste (coming out of nuclear reactors) and (ii) pollution from the burning of fossil fuels like petroleum or coal. Widespread availability of energy at low prices became a highly coveted possibility.. . As a further example. the Joint European Torus (JET) has put up a four storey high steeel structure in England to conduct the largest fusion power experiment in the world. Fifteen European countries have put in a billion dollars for the project. In the nuclear couldron here “deuterium gas is energized with 7 million amperes and heated to 300 million degrees Celsius which is 10 times hotter than the center of the sun. Under such high temperatures atomic nuclei collide and fuse, liberating energy that could provide limitless power.” . . Not unlike Pons and Fleischmann a retired U.S. scientist Edmund Storms has built a simple reactor using laboratory glassware, off-the-shelf chemical supplies an old computer etc. He claims that his equipment works, generating surplus heat for days at a time. He appeared before a congressional subcommittee considering the future of fusion. According to him nuclear reactions can be stimulated at at room temperature. He says "I am absolutely certain that the phenomenon is real. It is quite extraordinary, and if it can be developed, it will have profound effects on society." Each home could cool or heat itself. Automobiles could be run using similar energy.Massive generators and power lines would become redundant. . For all the excitement it has generated the cold fusion has not seen the light of day so far. The U.S. belives it would take five decades before the research produces positive results and can be exploited commercially. Even this time span is too short if only the world could get enery in abundant and plentiful energy supply at virtually no cost. Meanwhile Pons and Fleischmann were discredited and shunned even by their scientific community. This was inspite of the fact that they had put up their own $100,000 in the project.. . Cold fusion is a still incompletely explained energy-producing phenomenon. Unlike hot fusion where the heat is released in the form of radiation, cold fusion produces energy in the form of heat. The input output ratio (electrical energy put in/heat generated) is one is to a hundred or a thousand times. (Cold Fusion Primer . Besides the sceptics there are highly qualified researchers who belive that the cold fusion theory would soon turn into a reality. Because of space constraints we will produce justa couple of quotes from reserachers:. • George Miley, eceipient of Edward Teller medal for innovative research in hot fusion: "There's very strong evidence that low-energy nuclear reactions do occur. Numerous experiments have shown definitive results - as do my own." . • John Bockris, a formerly professor in physical chemistry at Texas A&M University and a cofounder of the International Society for Electrochemistry: "Nuclear reactions can occur without high temperatures. Low-energy nuclear transformations can - and do - exist."