In Heb. this book is named after the two opening words. Heb., Shir hash·Shi·rim´; Vgc(Lat.), Can´ti·cum Can·ti·co´rum Sa·lo·mo´nis, “Solomon’s Song of Songs (Canticles).”. . Info on the book "The Song of Solomon":. . A poetic book of the Hebrew Scriptures that tells of the unswerving love of a Shulammite girl (a country girl from Shunem, or Shulem) for a shepherd boy and King Solomon’s unsuccessful attempt to capture her love. The opening words of the Hebrew text designate this poem as the “song of songs,” that is, a “superlative song,” the most beautiful, the most excellent song. (See NW ftn on title.) It is but one song and not a collection of songs.. . At the outset Solomon is identified as the writer. (Ca 1:1) Internal evidence agrees with this, for it reveals the writer to have been one who was well acquainted with God’s creation, as was Solomon. (1Ki 4:29-33) Repeatedly plants, animals, precious stones, and metals figure in the vivid imagery of the book. (Ca 1:12-14, 17; 2:1, 3, 7, 9, 12-15; 4:8, 13, 14; 5:11-15; 7:2, 3, 7, 8, 11-13) The writer, as would be expected from a king like Solomon, was very familiar with the land inhabited by the Israelites—the coastal plain; the low plains (2:1); the mountain ranges of Lebanon, Hermon, Anti-Lebanon, and Carmel (4:8; 7:5); the vineyards of En-gedi (1:14); and “the pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rabbim” (7:4).. . The poem was composed when Solomon had 60 queens and 80 concubines. (Ca 6:8) This points to the earlier part of his 40-year reign (1037-998 B.C.E.), since Solomon finally came to have 700 wives and 300 concubines.—1Ki 11:3.. . The expressions of endearment contained in The Song of Solomon may seem very unusual to the Western reader. But it should be remembered that the setting for this song is an Oriental one of about 3,000 years ago.. . Persons Involved. The central figure of The Song of Solomon is the Shulammite. Other persons mentioned in the poem are her shepherd lover (Ca 1:7) and her mother and brothers (1:6; 8:2), King Solomon (3:11), the “daughters of Jerusalem” (the ladies of Solomon’s court), and the “daughters of Zion” (women residents of Jerusalem) (3:5, 11). The individuals can be differentiated by what they say of themselves or by what is said to them. In the Hebrew text, grammatical forms often imply gender (masculine or feminine) as well as number (singular or plural), thereby facilitating identification of the characters. To make this distinction evident in the English language it is often necessary to add clarifying words to convey fully the meaning of the original. Thus at The Song of Solomon 1:5 the Hebrew reads literally: “Black I and comely.” However, the Hebrew words for “black” and “comely” are in the feminine gender. Therefore the New World Translation reads: “A black girl I am, but comely.”. . The Drama. The Shulammite met the shepherd at the place of his birth. (Ca 8:5b) Jealous for the chastity of their sister, the brothers of the Shulammite tried to protect her from temptation. Therefore, when she wanted to accept her lover’s invitation to join him in viewing the beauties of early spring (2:8-14), they became angry with her and, taking advantage of the seasonal need, appointed her to guard the vineyards against the depredations of the little foxes. (1:6; 2:15) Exposed to the sun’s rays, the Shulammite lost the fairness of her skin.—1:5, 6.. . Later, while on her way to the garden of nut trees, she unintentionally came upon the encampment of King Solomon. (Ca 6:11, 12) Either seen there by the king himself or noticed by someone else and then recommended to him, the Shulammite was brought to Solomon’s camp. King Solomon made known his admiration for her. But she felt no attraction for him and voiced a longing for her shepherd lover. (1:2-4, 7) The “daughters of Jerusalem” therefore recommended that she leave the camp and find her lover. (1:8) Solomon, h