Your main question is:. Why are 'human rights' groups so obsessed with Israel and USA?. Then you added a lot of different subjects to improve US and Israel actions against the whole of world.. . US invading and occupying other countries by some nonsense excuses including, Human-rights, Democracy, etc. But what's fact?. I think, oil, gas, control over some strategic places and all of these matters are just for US benefits.. . What's about Israel?. Israel is country that founded on some false history and they (Zionists) founded it on a lot of dead Palestinians bodies. They occupied Palestine from 60 years ago till now. Israelis are killing innocent unarmed people in their mother land and their homes.. . You said, why are human rights groups obsessed with Israel.. I say you, they can't do anything against of barbarism and murdering in Palestine. Sometimes they protesting against a few ordinary subjects.. We watching children, women who killed and wounded by Israeli soldiers and Israeli militias everyday. YES, EVERY DAY. But they don't issue these kind of news completely. They censored news and pretend to Palestinians are attacking Israelis. Imagine this is right, just imagine...!. Palestine is Palestinian's land and they have right to live there freely and have job opportunities, etc, but Israelis just offering them bullets and bombs in their lands, of course with supporting by US.. . Also, you mixed Iran matters with Israel and US. This is so interesting...!. Iran wants to achieve out its rights to make some nuclear power stations under "IAEA" inspects. also, Iran wants to have some new technologies.. Perhaps you pretent to Iran has worse human-rights feature in compare with US and Israel.. I should mention you above notes again and again.. Actually, all of countries have some problem about human-rights matters. But Iran's matters isn't equal with some invaders, occupiers, bullies countries like US and Israel.. . If you are seeing the world and rights in your side, this is good opportunity to hearding other ideas.. Also, don't worry about human-rights obsessing. They just show you some nonsese theatres, they won't do anything against your favorite countries, So don't worry.