The following healthy living recommendations will help you if your trying to lose weight, have aspirations of building lean muscle mass, are attempting to get a wash board stomach, or just want to feel better:. . *1) Burn more calories then your consuming everyday and measure your results using the following formula: Calories Consumed minus Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) minus Physical Activity. Get a fitness calculator that you can put on your cell phone and computer. This will allow you to easily  calculate this formula, log your daily calorie consumption, and log your physical activities.. . *2) Eat natural and organic foods found on earth versus something created by a corporation to make money. Eat meals in small portions throughout the day and take a good multi-vitamin supplement. . . Avoid “High Glycemic Load Carbs” (sugar, pastries, desserts, refined starches such as breads, pasta, refined grains like white rice; high starch vegetables such as white potatoes) and drink lots of water. . . Do not try fad diets or diet pills. Here is an excellent food pyramid that anyone can follow: http://www.rayandterry.com/html/images/PyramidLRG.gif?osCsid=26a424be471d1337e7c2f105d5c64d9d. . *3) Exercise on most days by doing cardiovascular training and/or resistance training activities. . . Read a book or find a certified trainer to make sure your doing all resistance training exercises correctly. A great book to buy that teaches you the resistance training basics is “Weight Training For Dummies”. A superb magazine to buy with excellent resistance training routines that will not get you bored is "Muscle and Fitness". Signup for the free newsletter.. . A good book to buy that teaches you the cardiovascular training basics is “Fitness For Dummies”. . . *4) Get plenty of sleep. Sleep experts say most adults need between seven and nine hours of sleep each night for optimum performance, health, and safety. . . *5) Educate yourself continually on health issues. A good free publication is  “Dietary Guidelines For Americans 2005”. A superb book to read is “You The Owner’s Manual”. An excellent periodic publication is the “Nutrition Action Health Letter”.. . *6) Make a life long commitment to good health. A great test you can take to measure your biological age is at http://realage.com Look at other areas where you can improve your health. For example, make improvements on the quality of the air you breath. Review outdoor air quality forecasts where you live and get an indoor air purifier. Email me if you want a good air purifier recommendation and if you have other questions.. .  *Click on all the source links below to get the full benefit of the recommendations. The answers presented to your health questions are not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health providers with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.