Actually, evolution is a theory based upon circumstantial evidence that doesn't prove evolution to be fact.. . It is accepted by many as fact based on logic.. . But the jury is still out.. . According to the Big Bang theory, scientists assume that the universe began as a singularity the size of a marble that fits in your hand.. . How is it possible to fit the ENTIRE universe in a marble?. . The Big Bang theory suggests that the origin of the universe began as a singularity - a primeval atom. If the universe actually did begin as a primeval atom, where did it come from? And if the primeval atom did exist as a singularity, how is the Big Bang mathematically possible if 1+0=1?. . Which means that if the primeval atom exists as a singularity and there is nothing else to add to it, then shouldn't the universe still exist as a primeval atom according to this mathematical principle?. . And if such a primeval atom exploded the universe into existence, how could it consist in the first place if it existed as a singular instability? - which means that the singularity was unstable and blew up (if this is the case, how long was it stable and what caused the instability if it existed as a singularity and there was nothing else there to unbalance it)?. . To look at things differently is to see things clearly.. . The universe is a non-linear construct from The Infinite. The universe has a beginning but it has no end.... . More explicitly.... . God caused all existence to altogether consist simultaneously at once...thus, the universe is a non-linear construct from The Infinite.. . How is this possible? Simple... E=mc2 (The conversion of light energy into matter).. . ALL MATTER CONSISTS OF ENERGY.. . Where does this energy come from? A primeval atom the size of a marble? Do you REALLY think that is physically possible?. . If E=mc2 is the conversion of light energy into matter, and all matter consists of energy...then all matter originally consisted as light.. . Where did this energy come from? Light.. . If energy came from light...and GOD IS LIGHT...all energy came from God!. . If God is Light...and Light is energy.... . What does God consist of?. . E...N...E...R...G...Y.... . E=mc2. . If God says, "I am the beginning" God is saying, "I am the raw material from which all existence consists." Thus, God Himself is the Light from which all matter is formed.... . God is E=mc2. . Genesis 1.1 . . In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. . . "In the beginning" means "From Eternity". . If Eternity has no beginning nor end, and God has no beginning nor end, God is Eternity.. . Genesis 1.1 . . In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. . . When was the heaven created? In the beginning.. When was the earth created? In the beginning.. . So if BOTH the heaven AND the earth were created in the beginning, the heaven and the earth were BOTH created simultaneously!. . THUS, THE HEAVEN AND THE EARTH ARE THE SAME AGE!. . So the earth IS over 65,000,000 years old!. . Genesis 1.1 . . In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.. . If "In the beginning" means "from Eternity", and God IS Eternity, AND GOD IS THE BEGINNING, "In the beginning" means "In God". So Genesis 1.1 actually says, "In God, God created the heaven and the earth".. . Why didn't Genesis 1.1 say "At the beginning God created the heaven and the earth" as if related to time like "At 1:00"? Because "In the beginning" is "from Eternity" where there is no time. AND "In the beginning" is BOTH a moment AND a location.. . How? God is Omnipresent. NOTHING can exist OUTSIDE OF GOD, thus everything exists WITHIN God. SO, "IN the beginning" is actually "WITHIN the beginning"; which is actually "WITHIN God, The Beginning".. . Thus,. . Genesis 1.1 . . In the beginning God created the heaven and the